# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

24 OCT 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT: Supplementary Information on James Earl Ray

REFERENCE: DDO Memorandum for DCI dated 23 October 1975
Subject: Background for Rather Interview -
James Earl Ray

Dick Ober (then in CI) who wrote all the early Ray cables, recalls that he had numerous discussions with the FBI on the matter, and is certain that whatever we did was undertaken at the request of the FBI. Because of the fast moving situation, most of his discussions with the FBI were on the phone, and not the subject of written memoranda. The paper clipped outgoing cable in referring to Eric Galt (the man initially identified by the FBI as the assassin of Dr. King) requests "addressees make every effort determine if Galt is or has been in your area. Information para one should be passed to liaison and any other likely sources. FBI requests that any information reported be evaluated as to reliability and that as much detail as possible be provided. Cable any positive reply priority to HQS. and pass to legal attache if any in your country." There is a scribbled note in the file, presumably in Ober's hand, which reads: "4. Ray fingerprints: FBI agreed to my proposal we send to field for liaison." Ober, also logically points out that the FBI would not have provided us later with a fingerprint formula (see attached cable), a detailed physical description and photos unless they wanted this passed on to overseas liaison services. (Note that our cables did not go, for example, to Ottawa or Mexico City?)


David H. Blee
Associate Deputy Director
for Operations

Attachments

E2 IMPDET
CL-BY-035768


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

ORIG: Richard Ober
UNIT: CIOP/DO
EXTI: 6537
DATE: 18 Apr 68

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1
6
2
7
3
8
4
9
5
10

SECRET

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RIC

NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

INFO
RID COPY FILE VR CS/RF, DCI D/DCI, DDP

ADOP, C/EUR, C/WH, C/FE, C/NE

SECRET

19 0132 Z

CITE DIRECTOR 92664

TO: PRIORITY NO NIGHT ACTION
BOOK

ASUNCION, BANGKOK, BARCELONA, BEIRUT, BERLIN, BERN, BOGOTA,
CARACAS
BRASILIA, BRUSSELS, BUENOS AIRES, COPENHAGEN,

FRANKFURT, GENEVA, GEORGETOWN, GUATEMALA CITY,

GUAYAQUIL, THE HAGUE, HAMBURG, HELSINKI, HONG KONG,

KINGSTON, LA PAZ, LIMA, LONDON, MADRID, MANAGUA, MONTEVIDEO,

NEW DELHI, LISBON, MANILA, MUNICH, OSLO, PANAMA CITY, PARIS,

PORT AU PRINCE, PORT OF SPAIN, PORTO ALEGRE, QUITO, RECIFE,

RAWALPINDI, RIO DE JANERIO, ROME, SAN JOSE, SANTO DOMINGO,

SAN SALVADOR, SANTIAGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS, SAO PAULO,

STOCKHOLM, TEGUCIGALPA, TOKYO, VIENNA, ZURICH.

RYBAT WOMUSE

1. FOLLOWING INFORMATION FURNISHED BY LNERGO

CONCERNING SUSPECTED ASSASSIN OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

NAME ERIC STARVO GALT, ALIAS HARVEY LOWMYER, ALIAS JOHN

WILLARD, BORN 20 JULY 1931, HEIGHT FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TO

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RAY
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

QRIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY __________ PER __________ #
CONFI:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY
1
6
2
7
3
8
4
9
5
10

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RIL
NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.
INFO:
RID COPY FILE VR

(classification) (date and time filed) (elite) (reference number) (pi)

TO CITE DIRECTOR 92664

FIVE FEET ELEVEN INCHES, WEIGHT 160-175 POUNDS, MEDIUM
BUILD, BROWN HAIR, PROBABLY CUT SHORT, BLUE OR HAZEL EYES,
MEDIUM COMPLEXION, RACE WHITE. OCCUPATION: HAS CLAIMED
EMPLOYMENT AS SEAMAN. REMARKS: NOTICEABLY PROTRUDING
LEFT EAR; REPORTEDLY IS A LONE WOLF; ALLEGEDLY ATTENDED
DANCE INSTRUCTION SCHOOL; HAS REPORTEDLY COMPLETED XXX
COURSE IN BARTENDING; CONSIDERED ARMED AND EXTREMELY
DANGEROUS.

2. WILL POUCH PHOTO OF GALT TO ANY ADDRESSEE
   DESIRING IT. ADVISE.

3. GALTS CURRENT WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN. WHILE HAVE
   NO REASON BELIEVE GALT HEADED FOR YOUR AREA, DESIRE
   COVER ALL POSSIBILITIES.

4. REQUEST ADDRESSEES MAKE EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE
   IF GALT IS OR HAS BEEN IN YOUR AREA. NEXXX INFORMATION PARA ONE
   SHOULD BE PASSED TO LIAISON AND ANY OTHER LIKELY SOURCES.

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
REPROL TION DY OTHER MAN THE ISSUING OFF MIS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

13-00000

UNIT:

EXT:

DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY____________PER._________#

CONF: INFO: FILE VR

RID COPY

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| 1   | 6   |
| 2   | 7   |
| 3   | 8   |
| 4   | 9   |
| 5   | 10  |

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO. BRANCH FILE R

NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(classification) (date and time filed) (elito) (F
(reference number)

TO Γ LNERGO REQUESTS THAT ANY INFORMATION REPORTED BE EVALUATED

AS TO RELIABILITY AND THAT AS MO MUCH DETAIL AS POSSIBLE

BE PROVIDED. CABLE ANY POSITIVE REPLY PRIORITY TO HQS AND

PASS TO LEGAL ATTACHE IF ANY IN AT YOUR COUNTRY.

DC/CI (in draft)
(Mr. Hunt)

E/COPS

WH/FI (by phone)
(Mr. Smyth)

DC/FE (by phone)
( Mr. Smith)

CI/OP/DO

DDP by direction/St. for C/NE

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declossilication

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
