# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations identified by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to Executive Order 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive, or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must review the following list of organizations for certification purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Abraham. Lincoin School, Chicago, Illinois
Action Committee to Free Spain Now
Alabama. People's Educational. Association (see Communist Political Association)
American Association for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, Inc.
Americam Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions
American Christian. Nationalist. Party
American: Committee for European Workers Relief (see Socialist Workers Party)
American. Committee for Protection of Foreign Born
American Committee for Spanish Freedom
American Committee for the Settlement. of Jews in Birobidjan, Inc.
American Committee: for Yugoslav: Relief,. Inc:
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions: in Europe
American Counell: for a Demoerstic: Greece, formerly known as the Greek American Council;: Greek American: Committee for Na-tionsi Unity
American Council: on Sortet: Relations
American Croatian Congress
Amertoan. Jewish Labor Council
American. League Against War and Fascism
American League: for Peace and Demостасу
American. Nationsi. Labor Party
American Nationsi Socialist League
American National Socialist Party
American Nationalist Party
American. Patriots, Inc.
American Peace Crusade
American Peace Mobilization
American. Poles for Peace
American. Polish. Labor Council
American. Polish. League
American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the United American Spanish Aid Committee)
American-Russian Fraternal. Society
American. Russian. Institute; New York, slso known as the Ameri-can Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Soviet Union
American Russian Institute,. Philadelphia
American Russian Institute of San Francisco
American Russian: Institute of Southern California, Los Angeles
American. Slav Congress
American Women for Peace
American. Youth Congress
American Youth for Democracy
Armenian Progressive League of America
Associated Klans of America
Association of Georgia Klans
Association of. German Nationals (Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung)
Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Nazi Party

Baltimore Forum
Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee
Black Dragon Bociety

Boston. School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massachusetts
Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt. Defense Committee
Bulgarian American: People's League of the United States of America

California Emergency Defense. Committee
California. Labor School, Inc., 121: Divisadero Street, Ban Francisco, California
Carpatho-Russian: People's Bociety
Central. Council of American Women of Croatian Descent, also known. ss. Central Council of American Croatian Women, Na-tional: Council of Croatian: Women:
Gentral. Japanese: Association (Beikoku: Chuo Nipponjin: Kal)
Cantral: Japanese. Association of Southern: California.
Central Organisation: of the German-American National Alliance (Deutsche-Amerikanische. Einheitsfront)
Cervantes: Fraternal: Society
China. Welfare Appeal, Inc.
Chopin Cultural Center
Citirens Committee for Harry, Bridges
Citizens Committee of the Upper West Bide (New York City)
Citizena Committee to Free Karl Browder
Citizens: Emergency Defense Conference
Citizens Protective League
Civil: Idberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh
Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organizations, Including:
Civil Rights. Congress for Texas
Veterans Against. Discrimination. of. Civil Rights Congress of New York
Civil Rights Congress. for Texas (see Civil Rights Congress)
Columbians
Comite Coordinador Pro: Republica Espanola
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles
(Bea Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles)
Committee for a Democratic Par Eastern Policy
Committee for Constitutional and. Political. Freedom
Committee for: Nationalist Action
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Bix
Committee for the Negro in the Arts
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights
Committee for. World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland
(Bee. Congress Against. Discrimination; Maryland Congreas Against Discrimination; Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of Maryland)
Committee to Aid the Fighting Bouth
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson
Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh's Political Prisonera.
Committee to Uphold the: Bill of Rights
Commonwealth College; Mena, Arkansas
Communist Party,. U. 8.. A., Its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and affiliatos


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and amitates, including:
*   Alabama People's Educational Association
*   Florida Press and Educational League
*   Oklahoma League for Political Education
*   People's Educational and Press Association of Texas
*   Virginia League for People's Education
    Congress Against Discrimination
    (See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
    Congress of American Revolutionary Writers
    Congrees of American Women
    Congress of the Unemployed
    Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith Act
    Connecticut State Youth Conference
    Council for Joba, Relief and Housing
    Council for Pan-American Democracy
    Council of Greek Americans
    Council on African Affairs
    Croatian Benevolent Fraternity

Dai Nippon Butoku Kal (Military Virtue Bociety of Japan or Mill-tary Art Society of Japan)
Dally Worker Press Club
Daniels Defense Committee
Dante Alighieri Society (between 1935 and 1940)
Dennis Defense Committee
Detroit Youth Assembly

East Bay Peace Committee
Kisinore Progressive League
Emergency Conference to Bave Spanish Refugees (founding body of the North American Spanish Aid Committee)
Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War

Pamilies of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims
Families of the Smith Act Victims
Federation of Italian War Veterans in the U. 8. A, Inc. (Associa-sione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani, Federazione degli Stati Uniti d'America)
Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society
Florida Press and Educational League (see Communist Political Association)
Frederick Douglass Educational Center
Freedom Stage, Inc.
Friends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen Deutschlands)
Friends of the Soviet Union

Garibaldi American Fraternal Society
George Washington Carver School, New York City
German-American Bund (Amerikadeutscher Volksbund)
German-American Republican League
German-American Vocational League (Deutsche-Amerikanische Berufsgemeinschaft)
Guardian Club

Harlem Trade Union Council
Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee
Heimusha Kai, also known as Nokubel Heleki Gimusha Kai, Zaibel Nihonjin, Heiyaku Gimusha Kai, and Zaibel Heimusha Kai (Japanese Residing in America Military Conscripts Association)
Hellenic-American Brotherhood
Hinode Kai (Imperial Japanese Reservists)
Hinomaru Kal (Rising Sun Flag Society - a group of Japanese War Veterans)
Hokubel Zaigo Bhoke Dan (North American Reserve Officers Asso-ciation)
Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense
Hungarian-American Council for Democracy
Hungarian Brotherhood

Idaho Pension Union
Independent Party (Seattle, Washington)
(See Independent People's Party)

Independent People's Party
(See Independent Party)
Industrial Workers of the World
International Labor Defense
International Workers Order, its subdivisions, subsidiaries and amlistes
Japanese Association of America
Japanese Overseas Central Society (Kaigal Dobo Chuo Kai)
Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1940
Japanese Protective Association (Recruiting Organization)
Jefferson School of Social Science, New York City
Jewish Culture Bociety
Jewish People's Committee
Jewish People's Fraternal Order
Jikyoku Iinkai (The Committee for the Crisis)
Johnson-Porest Group
(See Johnsonites)
Johnsonites
(Bee Johnson-Forest Group)
Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee
Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.
Joseph Wedemeyer School of Social Science, St. Louis, Missourt

Kibel Beinen Kai (Association of U. 8. Citizens of Japanese Ancestry who have returned to America after studying in Japan)
Knights of the White Camellia
Ku Klux Klan
Kyffhseuser, also known as Kyfthaeuser League (Kyffhseuser Bund). Kyffhaeuser Fellowship (Kyfthaeuser Kameradschaft) Kyffhaeuser War Relief (Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rights
Labor Research Association, Inc.
Labor Youth League
League for Common Sense
League of American Writers
Lictor Bociety (Italian Black Shirts)

Macedonian-American People's League
Mario Morgantini Circle
Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon
Maryland Congress Against Discrimination
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not connected with the Minute Women of the U. 8. A., Inc.)
Maurice Braverman Defense Committee
Michigan Civil Rights Federation
Michigan Council for Peace
Michigan School of Social Science

Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (Imperial Military Friends Group or Southern California War Veterans)
National Association of Mexican Americans (also known as Asociacion Nacional Mexico-Americana)
National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be confused with the Blue Star Mothers of America organized in February 1942)
National Committee for Freedom of the Press
National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners
National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith Act Victims
National Committee to Win the Peace
National Conference on American Policy in China and the Far East (a Conference called by the Committee for & Democratic Par Eastern Policy)
National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent
National Council of American-Soviet Friendship
National Federation for Constitutional Liberties
National Labor Conference for Peace
National Negro Congress
National Negro Labor Council
Nationalist Action League


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
Nature Friends of America (since 1935)
Negro Labor Victory Committee
New Committee for Publications
Nichibel Kogyo Kaisha (The Great Fujii Theatre)
North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy
North American Spanish Aid Committee
North Philadelphia Forum
Northwest Japanese Association

Ohio School of Social Sciences
Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners
Oklahoma League for Political Education (see Communist Political Association)
Original Southern Klans, Incorporated

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Palo Alto Peace Club
Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating in the Canal Zone)
Peace Information Center
Peace Movement of Ethiopia
People's Drama, Inc.
People's Educational and Press Association of Texas (see Communist Political Association)
People's Educational Association (incorporated under name Los Angeles Educational Association, Inc.), also known as People's Educational Center, People's University, People's School
People's Institute of Applied Religion
People's Programs (Seattle, Washington)
People's Radio Foundation, Inc.
People's Rights Party
Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights
Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art
Photo League (New York City)
Pittsburgh Arts Club
Political Prisoners' Welfare Committee
Polonia Society of the IWO
Progressive German-Americans, also known as Progressive German-Americans of Chicago
Proletarian Party of America
Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.
Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, Southwest Area
Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of Maryland
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)
(See Comite Pro Derechos Civiles)
Puertorriquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

Quad City Committee for Peace
Queensbridge Tenants League

Revolutionary Workers League
Romanian-American Fraternal Society
Russian American Society, Inc.

Sakura Kai (Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association - composed of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)
Samuel Adams School, Boston, Massachusetts

Santa Barbara Peace Forum
Schappes Defense Committee
Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee
School of Jewish Studies, New York City
Seattle Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Serbian-American Fraternal Society
Serbian Vidovdan Council
Shinto Temples (limited to State Shinto abolished in 1945)
Silver Shirt Legion of America
Slavic Council of Southern California
Slovak Workers Society
Slovenian-American National Council
Socialist Workers Party, including American Committee for European Workers' Relief
Sokoku Kai (Fatherland Society)
Southern Negro Youth Congress
Suiko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles)
Syracuse Women for Peace

Tom Paine School of Social Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York
Trade Union Committee for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Trade Unionists for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council

Ukrainian-American Fraternal Union
Union of American Croatians
Union of New York Veterans
United American Spanish Aid Committee
United Committee of Jewish Societies and Landsmanschaft Federations, also known as Coordination Committee of Jewish
Landsmanschaften and Fraternal Organizations
United Committee of South Slavic Americans
United Defense Council of Southern California
United Harlem Tenants and Consumers Organization
United May Day Committee
United Negro and Allied Veterans of America

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of New York (see Civil Rights Congress)
Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Virginia League for People's Education (see Communist Political Association)
Voice of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark, New Jersey
Washington Bookshop Association
Washington Committee for Democratic Action
Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Commonwealth Federation
Washington Pension Union
Wisconsin. Conference on Social Legislation
Workers Alliance (since April 1936)

Yiddisher Kultur Farband
Young Communist League
Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home, Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

THIS DATE (Fill in)
September 6, 1961

1.  Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write "NA". Write "Unknown" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2.  Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3.  Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

FLORES, Daniel

2. AGE

26

3. SEX

**X**MALE FEMALE

4. HEIGHT

5'8"

5. WEIGHT

165 pds.

6. COLOR OF EYES

Brown

7. COLOR OF HAIR

Black

8. TYPE COMPLEXION

Dark

9. TYPE BUILD

Medium

10. SCARS (Type and Location) Right cheek, one-half inch scar; left upper lip, one-quarter inch scar: both received playing football

11. OTHER DISTINGUSHING PHYSICAL FEATURES

None

12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country)

(2828 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.. #203)
Washington 8, D. C.

13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country) AND PHONE NO.

(2828 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. #203) - Washington 8, D.C.

14. CURRENT PHONE NO.

(265-8322)08

15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT.

None

16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory or Country)

Washington, District of Columbia

17. NICKNAMES

Dan

18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED

None

19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.

Personal acquaintances - twelve years

20. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Authority).

NA

SECTION II POSITION DATA

1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

Any phase of communications; administration; or personnel work.

2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL ACCEPT (You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance salary).

$ 4,250.00

3. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT

Immediately

4. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL

OCCASIONALLY **X**FREQUENTLY CONSTANTLY OTHER:

5. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (**X**) each item applicable)

**X** WASHINGTON. D.C. ANYWHERE IN U.S. CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify):

**X** OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U.S.

6. INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.

I would be willing to travel within the United States provided said travel would not involve a permanent move whereby my legal residence would be changed. However, it is my wish to live overseas on a permanent basis.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECTION III

1. DATE OF BIRTH

August 4, 1985

4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY

X BIRTH

7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE

NA

9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY

YES X NO

11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.

NA

CITIZENSHIP

2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

(San Marcos) Texas

5. DATE NATURALIZED

NA

8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)

NA

10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY

NA

3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)

United States of America

6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.

NA

12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP

YES X NO

14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)?

NA

15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S.

NA

18. LAST U.S. VISA (No., Type, Place of Issue)

NA

# SECTION IV

16. PORT OF ENTRY

NA

EDUCATION

13. GIVE PARTICULARS

NA

17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY

NA

19. DATE VISA ISSUED

NA

1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED

LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE

HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE

TRADE, BUSINESS, OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE

X TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS

OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE - NO DEGREE

BACHELOR'S DEGREE

GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE

MASTER'S DEGREE

DOCTOR'S DEGREE

2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

1. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

(San Marcos) Elementary School

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)

Sept., 1942 - May, 1951

2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

(San Marcos) Texas, U.S.A.

X YES

4. GRADUATE

NO

3. HIGH SCHOOL

1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL

(San Marcos) High School

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)

Sept., 1951 - May, 1955

2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

(San Marcos) Texas, U.S.A.

X YES

4. GRADUATE

NO

1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL

NA

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)

2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

YES

4. GRADUATE

NO

4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

| NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY | SUBJECT MAJOR   MINOR | DATES ATTENDED FROM   TO | DEGREE REC'D | DATE REC'D | SEM/QTR HOURS (Specify) |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|                                            |                       |                          |              |            |                         |
|                                            |                       |                          |              |            |                         |
|                                            |                       |                          |              |            |                         |
|                                            |                       |                          |              |            |                         |

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

5. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4 WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE
   OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.

NA

6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO  | MONTHS |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | --- | ------ |
| NA                         |                         |      |     |        |

7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL                                                        | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM    | TO       | MONTHS  |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------- |
| Marine Security Guard School Henderson Hall Hq. Marine Corps, Washington 25, D.C. | Security Guard Training | 9/28/58 | 10/31/58 | (5 wks) |

8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

Weapons Training in Marine Corps.
Acted as partisan during cold weather training at Bridgeport,
California (Pickle Meadows - USMC).

SECTION V

1. LANGUAGE

(List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence. Indicate your proficiency to Read, Write or Speak by placing a check (X) in the appropriate box(es).

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES

|         |                              | COMPETENCE - IN ORDER LISTED R-Read, W-Write, S-Speak |                       |                     |                   |                   | HOW ACQUIRED        |                              |                             |
| ------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------------------------- |
|         | EQUIVALENT TO NATIVE FLUENCY | FLUENT BUT OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN                          | ADEQUATE FOR RESEARCH | ADEQUATE FOR TRAVEL | LIMITED KNOWLEDGE | NATIVE OF COUNTRY | PROLONGED RESIDENCE | CONTACT (with parents, etc.) | ACADEMIC STUDY (all levels) |
|         | R W S                        | R W S                                                 | R W S                 | R W S               | R W S             | R W S             |                     |                              |                             |
| Spanish | X                            | X X                                                   |                       |                     |                   |                   |                     | X                            |                             |

2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "HOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

NA

3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND WRITTEN FORM, EXPLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.

NA

4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS.

Could act as literal interpreter at almost any level.

5. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION FOR WHICH YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED?

YES NO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECTION VI GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

1. LIST BELOW ANY FOREIGN REGIONS OR COUNTRIES IN WHICH YOU HAVE TRAVELLED OR GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF RESIDENCE, STUDY OR WORK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE SUCH AS TERRAIN, HARBORS, UTILITIES, RAIL- ROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL PARTIES, ETC.

| NAME OF REGION OR COUNTRY | TYPE OF SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE | DATES OF RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL | DATES AND PLACE OF STUDY | KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY |        |       |                   |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------ | --------------------- | :----: | :---: | :---------------: |
|                           |                               |                              |                          | RESI- DENCE           | TRAVEL | STUDY | WORK ASSIGN- MENT |
| Bolivia                   | General knowledge             | 11/13/58 to 1/11/60          |                          | X                     |        |       |                   |
| Peru                      | General knowledge             | 1/14/60 to 11/20/60          |                          | X                     |        |       |                   |
| Chile                     |                               | 6/16/59 to 6/21/59           |                          |                       |   X    |       |                   |
| Argentina                 |                               | 6/21/59 to 6/30/59           |                          |                       |   X    |       |                   |
| Uruguay                   |                               | 6/30/59 to 7/2/59            |                          |                       |   X    |       |                   |

2. INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE, OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE.

Marine Security Guard - American Embassy - Bolivia and Peru
Vacation - Chile; Argentina; Uruguay, Panama

3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE, IF ISSUED.

No.(174850<sup>SP-85575</sup>) Passport has been cancelled.

# SECTION VII TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS

| 1. TYPING (wpm) | 2. SHORTHAND (wpm) | 3. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED - CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 45 wpm          | None               | GREGG SPEEDWRITING STENOTYPE OTHER (Specify):         |

2. INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING (Comptometer, Mimeogmph, Card Punch, Etc.).

Thermofax, mimeograph, switchboard

# SECTION VIII SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

1. LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARE ACTIVE OR HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY IN EACH.

Football - good
Basketball - fair
Swimming - good
Reading - average
Contract Bridge - very good

2. INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION OR TYPE OF WORK.

None to my knowledge

3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY HAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII, LIST ANY SPECIAL SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indi- cate CW speed, sending and receiving), OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.

None

SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE 5

52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECTION VIII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

4. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT, ELECTRICIAN, RADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER, LAWYER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC.?

☐ YES ☒ NO

5. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ABOVE, INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUING LICENSE (Provide License Registry Number, If known).

NA

6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)

NA

7. LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)

NA

8. LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF WHICH YOU ARE THE AUTHOR (Do NOT submit copies unless requested). INDICATE THE TITLE, PUBLICATION DATE, AND TYPE OF WRITING (Non-Fiction or Scientific articles, General Interest subjects, Novels, Short Stories, Etc.). I.

None

9. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

None

10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE.

Have spoken in my father's church and other churches approximately 150 times. Met and assisted public in Embassies during my tour of duty with the Marine Security Guard.

11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU HAVE RECEIVED.

None

SECTION IX EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign Government, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, "Description of Duties" consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

From 1949 to 1953

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

(Hillburn's) Drug Store

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

10 (San Marcos) Texas

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Drug Store

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Mr. William (Hillburn)

6. TITLE OF JOB

Fountain attendant

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$100.00 PER month

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Employee at soda counter

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To participate in school events (football).

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

July 1954-June 1955

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

(Diamond) Grocery Store

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

South Guadalupe St. San Marcos, Texas

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Grocery Store

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Mr. (Ignacio Gonzales)

6. TITLE OF JOB

Butcher

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$30.00 PER Week

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Slaughtering and preparing meat for sale as well as actual selling.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To attend college

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

May, 1955 - September, 1956

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

(San Marcos) Baptist Academy

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

San Marcos Texas

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Private School

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Mr. (John Sparkman)

6. TITLE OF JOB

Painter's Assistant

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$ 35.00 PER week

8. CLASS. GRADE (Il Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Painted dormitories in the Academy

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To attend school

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

September, 1956 - July, 1957

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

(Economy) Department Stores

3. ADDRESS (ND., Street, City, State, Country)

(San Marcos) Texas

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Clothing Store

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Mr. Max Mendlovitz

6. TITLE OF JOB

Sales Clerk

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$ 30.00 PER week

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Assisted customers in selecting and buying goods.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To join the Marine Corps.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

July 26, 1957 - July 25, 1961

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

United States Marine Corps

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Military

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Col. John Magruder

6. TITLE OF JOB

Marine Corps Museum Attendant

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$ 180.00 PER month

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

Cpl. (E-4)

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
   Acted as guide to all visitors entering Museum, explaining Marine Corps history, etc. Also on several occasions acted as interpreter for visiting military personnel from Latin America.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
    Dis charged

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)
   July 28, 1961 - August 30, 1961

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
   (Ohio Valley) Engineering Company

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   S. Capitol and I Streets, S. W., Washington, D. C.

4. KIND OF BUSINESS
   Construction

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
   Mr. (L. G. Bruce)

6. TITLE OF JOB
   Laborer

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
   $2.17 per hour

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
   Handyman for Company

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
    Temporary work while seeking permanent employment.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3 ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

6. TITLE OF JOB

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
   $
   per

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

8. IF PRIOR SERVICE WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE TOWARD U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT, IF KNOWN.
   7 1/2 years

9. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION. YES NO

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN? YES NO

IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS

Honorably discharged from United States Marine Corps.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECTION X

## MILITARY SERVICE

1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE DRAFT UNDER
   THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND
   SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (As amended)

☑ YES

NO

2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIF-
   CATION

IV-A

3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.

(41-65-35-187)08

4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON

NA

5. LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NO. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS
   #65 - 101 1/2 E. San Antonio St.,

2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD10 (Lockhart) Texas

1. CURRENT AND/OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP

| CHECK (X) AS  | ARMY | NAVY | MARINE CORPS | AIR FORCE | COAST GUARD | MERCHANT MARINE | NATIONAL GUARD | AIR NAT'L GUARD | FOREIGN ORGAN. OR MIL. SERVICE (Specify): |
| ------------- | ---- | ---- | ------------ | --------- | ----------- | --------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| HAVE SERVED→  |      |      | X            |           |             |                 |                |                 |                                           |
| NOW SERVING → |      |      |              |           |             |                 |                |                 | None                                      |

2. BRANCH OR CORPS OF ABOVE CHECKED ORGANIZATION(S)

Personnel Administration

3. DATE SEPARATED FROM EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY (Past service)

25 July, 1961

4. TOTAL LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMED FORCES (Past and current service)
   4 years

5. DATE ENTERED ACTIVE DUTY

26 July, 1957

6. TOTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY OR- GANIZATION

7. RANK, GRADE OR RATE

Cpl. (E-4)

8. SERVICE, SERIAL OR FILE NUMBER (If now serving, provide cur rent number)

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE

0141 - Chief Clerk

10. SECONDARY MIL. OCCUPATIONAL
    SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE

None

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether applicable to past or current service)

Past Service: Clerk - Maintained personnel service records.
2 years as Security Guard in the American Embassies in
La Paz, Bolivia and Lima, Peru.

12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE DUTY

| X HONORABLE DISCHARGE      | RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE             | UNDUE HARDSHIPS |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------- |
| X RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY | RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY   | OTHER:          |
| RETIREMENT FOR AGE         | RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY |                 |

13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVED

X REGULAR ☑ RESERVE (Including the National and Air National Guard)                                OTHER (Including AUS)

3. MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS

1. DO YOU NOW HAVE RESERVE STATUS†

X YES
NO

2. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE
   NAT'L. GRD. OR AIR NAT'L.
   GRD.?

YES

X NO

3. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE ROTC†

YES

X NO

4. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW

| ARMY | X MARINE CORPS | NATIONAL GUARD  | COAST GUARD | NAVY ROTC      | INDICATE ROTC CATEGORY NUMBER |
| ---- | -------------- | --------------- | ----------- | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
| NAVY | AIR FORCE      | AIR NAT'L.GUARD | ARMY ROTC   | AIR FORCE ROTC |                               |

5. CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR RATE

Cpl. (E-4)

6. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT RANK

May, 1959

7. EXPIRATION DATE OF CURRENT RESERVE OBLIGATION

January 20, 1962

8. CHECK (X) CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY

READY RESERVE

STANDBY (Active) X STANDBY (Inactive)

RETIRED

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Desig nator) AND TITLE

0141

10. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Des- Ignator) AND TITLE.

None

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES

None

12. ARE YOU CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHED
    TO A RESERVE, NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAIN- ING UNIT

YES

X NO

13. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY AND ADDRESS

14. HAVE YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGN- MENT?

YES

X NO

15. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 14, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY AND ADDRESS

16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE YEARS
    FOR LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUD ING ACTIVE AND INACTIVE DUTY

7

MONTHS

7

17. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT†

Headquarters Marine Corps, Washington 25, D.C.

56


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECTION XI - FINANCIAL STATUS

1. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY?  ☐ YES ☒ NO

2. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "NO" TO THE ABOVE, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME

Wife's income

3. BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

| NAME OF INSTITUTION          | ADDRESS (City, State, Country)           |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| The Bank of California, N.A. | 330 S.W. 6th Avenue, Portland, Oregon    |
| Union Trust Company          | 15 and H Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C. |

4. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY.  ☐ YES ☒ NO

5. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE(S)

6. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES

| NAME                            | ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State)           |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| General Motors Acceptance Corp. | 1310 S.W. Yamhill Street, Portland 5, Oregon |
| Gulf Oil Corporation            | P.0. Box 7245, Atlanta 9, Georgia            |
| Ninde Furniture Company         | 917 Caroline Steet, Fredericksburg Virginia  |

7. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT ACT, PENSION, OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE? ☐ YES ☒ NO

8. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION. GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

9. DO YOU HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS WITH NON-U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES; OR IN OR WITH U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTS?

☐ YES ☒ NO (If answer "YES", furnish details on separate sheet.)

# SECTION XII - MARITAL STATUS

1. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, or Annulled) SPECIFY: Married

2. STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

NA

WIFE, HUSBAND OR FIANCE: If you have been married more than once - including annulments - use a separate sheet for former wife or husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate information for fiance.

|         | (First) | (Middle) | (Maiden) | -(Last) |
| ------- | ------- | -------- | -------- | ------- |
| 3. NAME | Dorothy | Anne     | Arnett   | Flores  |

4. STATE ANY OTHER NAMES EVER USED

(Dorothy A. Moran)

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH ANY OF THESE NAMES WERE USED. IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

5. DATE OF MARRIAGE: November 14, 1960

6. PLACE OF MARRIAGE (City, State, Country): (Lima, Peru)

7. HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE (No., Street, City, State, Country)

American Embassy, (La Paz, Bolivia)

8. LIVING ☒ YES ☐ NO

9. DATE OF DEATH

10. CAUSE OF DEATH

11. CURRENT ADDRESS (Give last address, if deceased)

(2828 Connecticut Ave., N.W., #203) Washington 8, D.C.

12. DATE OF BIRTH: January 31, 1935

13. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country): Portland, Oregon

14. CITIZENSHIP: United States of An.

SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECTION XII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 9

14. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

NA

15. PLACE OF ENTRY

NA

16. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(ies)

NA

17. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
    ACQUIRED

NA

NA

19. OCCUPATION

Legal Secretary

20. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Also give former employer, or if spouse deceased or
    umemployed give last two employers)

(Boykin and De Francis) 308

Former: Department of State

21. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City. State, Country)

1000 16th St., N.W. Suite 603 Washington 6, D.C.

22. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From and to - By Mo. and Yr.)

None

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE

24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH MILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED

25. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN Foreign Service - Jan., 1958 - Oct., 1960; Civil Service - April 1961 - June 1961

SECTION XIII CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

1. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS

| NAME | RELATIONSHIP | DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | ADDRESS |
| ---- | ------------ | ----------------------- | ----------- | ------- |
| None |              |                         |             |         |

2. NUMBER OF CHILDREN (Including step-children and adopted children) WHO ARE UNMARRIED, UNDER 21 YRS. OF AGE, AND NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.

3. NUMBER OF OTHER DEPENDENTS (Including spouse, parents, step-parents, sister, etc.) WHO DEPEND ON YOU FOR AT LEAST 50% OF THEIR SUPPORT, OR CHILDREN OVER 21 YRS. OF AGE WHO ARE NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.

SECTION XIV FATHER (Give same information, for Stepfather and/or Guardian on a separate sheet)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

(Jose S) Flores

2. LIVING

X YES

NO

3. DATE OF DEATH

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

5. STATE OTHER NAMES HE HAS USED

None

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH HE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT ADDRESS - Give last address, if deceased (No., Street, City, State, Country)

501 S. Guadalupe Street, San Marcos Texas

7. DATE OF BIRTH

December 20, 1898

8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Mier y Noriega, Nuevo Leon, Mexico

9. CITIZENSHIP

USA

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY

May 24, 1918

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

Unknown

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(ies)

Mexican

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED

1957

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

-Austin, Texas

15. OCCUPATION

Baptist Minister

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Father is deceased or unemployed)

Mexican Baptist Church

17. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF-EMPLOYED

501 S. Guadalupe Street, San Marcos) Texas

18. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To)

To my knowledge never served in any military service

19. BRANCH OF SERVICE

20. COUNTRY

21. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECTION XV MOTHER (Give same information for Stepmother on separate sheet)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Flores, Agustina

5. STATE OTHER NAMES SHE HAS USED
   None to my knowledge

2. LIVING
   YES X NO

3. DATE OF DEATH
   June 1939

4. CAUSE OF DEATH
   Unknown

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH SHE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT ADDRESS - GIVE LAST ADDRESS, IF DECEASED (No., Street, City State, Country)
   S. Austin and Lee Streets, San Marcos, Texas

7. DATE OF BIRTH
   September 20, 1903

8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Mier y Noriega, Nuevo Leon, Mexico

9. CITIZENSHIP
   Mexican

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.- DATE OF ENTRY
    Unknown

11. PLACE OF ENTRY
    Unknown

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) [Country(ies)]
    NA

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED
    NA

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
    NA

15. OCCUPATION
    Housewife

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother is deceased or unemployed)
    NA

17. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR MOTHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF EMPLOYED
    NA

18. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To)
    NA

19. BRANCH OF SERVICE
    NA

20. COUNTRY
    NA

21. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
    NA

# SECTION XVI BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including Half-, Step- and Adopted Brothers and Sisters)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Patlan, Frances

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   (631 S. River St. Seguin) Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   X YES NO

6. AGE
   41

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   (Renteria, Rachel)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   (311 Lambert St. San Antonio) Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   X YES NO

6. AGE
   39

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   (Black, Rebecca Mary)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   (501 S. Guadalupe St. San Marcos) Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   X YES NO

6. AGE
   34

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Flores, (Samuel)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   (Rosemary and Chapman, Seguin) Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   X YES NO

6. AGE
   32

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Flores, (Joe)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   Route 2, Box 320, San Marcos, Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   X YES NO

6. AGE
   29

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   (Bruce, Esther)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   (7252 Exmore St., Springfield) Virginia

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   X YES NO

6. AGE
   27

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Flores, (Eleazar)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   Deceased

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   YES X NO

6. AGE
   7

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Flores, (Juan)

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   Deceased

2. RELATIONSHIP
   Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S. of America

5. LIVING
   YES X NO

6. AGE
   NA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# SECTION XVII

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

(Arnett, Carl Raymond) 06

5. STATE OTHER NAMES HE HAS USED

Ray

FATHER-IN-LAW

2. LIVING

*YES* NO

3. DATE OF DEATH

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH HE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country) 08

(4505 Washington St., Milwaukie, 22) Oregon

7. DATE OF BIRTH

January 2, 1909

8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Minot, North Dakota

9. CITIZENSHIP

U.S. of America

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

NA

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

NA

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(ies))

NA

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED

NA

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

NA

15. OCCUPATION

Warehouse Foreman

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, il Father-in-Law is deceased or unemployed)

(Rudy Wilhelm Inc), Portland, Oregon

# SECTION XVIII

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

(Tompkins, Alma Dean) 06

5. STATE OTHER NAMES SHE HAS USED

Alma Dean Arnett 06

MOTHER-IN-LAW

2. LIVING

*YES* NO

3. DATE OF DEATH

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH SHE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country) 08

(13920 S.E. Portland View Place, Portland 36,) Oregon

7. DATE OF BIRTH

May 4, 1910

8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Portland, Oregon

9. CITIZENSHIP

U.S. of America

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

NA

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

NA

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(ies))

NA

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED

NA

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

NA

15. OCCUPATION

Homemaker

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother-in-Law is deceased or unemployed)

NA

# SECTION XIX

RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER (1) LIVE ABROAD, (2) ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS OR (3) WORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

| 1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)                | 2. RELATIONSHIP         | 3. AGE                  |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
| None to my knowledge                            |                         |                         |
| 4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES | 5. EMPLOYED BY          | 8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)                        | 7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT |                         |

| 1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)                | 2. RELATIONSHIP         | 3. AGE                  |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES | 5. EMPLOYED BY          | 8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)                        | 7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT |                         |

| 1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)                | 2. RELATIONSHIP         | 3. AGE                  |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES | 5. EMPLOYED BY          | 8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)                        | 7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT |                         |

| 1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)                | 2. RELATIONSHIP         | 3. AGE                  |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES | 5. EMPLOYED BY          | 8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT |
|                                                 |                         |                         |
| 6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)                        | 7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT |                         |

# SECTION XIX CONTINUED TO PAGE 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECTION XIX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

6. SPECIAL REMARKS, IF ANY, CONCERNING RELATIVES NOTED IN SECTION XIX ABOVE

NA

SECTION XX RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO ARE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

(Arnett, Raymond Wesley)

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

U.S. Army Depot, Pueblo, Colorado

2. RELATIONSHIP

Bro-in-law

3. AGE

24

4. CITIZENSHIP

U.S. of America

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (If known)

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

(Miller, Claude)

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Air Station, Quantico, Virginia

2. RELATIONSHIP

2nd Cousin

3. AGE

Unk

4. CITIZENSHIP

U.S. of America

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (If known)

Aviation - 1st Sgt., USMC

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. CITIZENSHIP

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (If known)

SECTION XXI REFERENCES, ACQUAINTANCES, AND NEIGHBORS

1. LIST FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCES, NOT RELATIVES, IN THE U.S., WHO KNOW YOU INTIMATELY

NAME
(Last-First-Middle)

BUSINESS ADDRESS
(No., Street, City and State)

RESIDENCE ADDRESS
(No., Street, City and State)

Mr. and Mrs. (Jose Espinosa)

(S. Guadalupe St.,)
San Marcos, Texas

(San Marcos,) Texas

Rev. (Carlos Paredes)

(First Baptist Church)
Austin, Texas

Austin, Texas

Mr. (Thaxter L. Goodell)

(2430 E. St., N.W.)
Washington, D.C.

3742 Jason Avenue,
Alexandria, Virginia

Mr. (Alfred Beaty)

Dept. of Agriculture

1711 Massachutes Ave.
Washington, D.C.

Cpl. (Michael Hennessy)

The American Embassy,
Lima, Peru

172 Bartolome Herrera
Miraflores, Lima, Peru

2. LIST FIVE PERSONS, IN THE U.S. WHO KNOW YOU SOCIALLY - NOT RELATIVES, SUPERVISORS OR EMPLOYERS

NAME
(Last-First-Middle)

BUSINESS ADDRESS
(No., Street, City and State)

RESIDENCE ADDRESS
(No., Street, City and State)

Mr. (Howard Wickland Jr.)

Department of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

Hilltop House,
Euclid St., Wash., D.C.

Mr. (Max Pine)

Department of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

3571 Section Road,
Cincinnati 36, Ohio

Miss (Mary Ann Newman)

Allen Lee Hotel, 23rd &
E Sts., N.W., Wash., D.C.

Miss (Ruth F. Stewart)

(601 Cascade,)
Boulder, Colorado

Mrs. (Bea Lux)

173 Bartolome Herrera,
Miraflores, Lima, Peru

3. LIST THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR MOST RECENT NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THE U.S.

NAME
(Last-First-Middle)

BUSINESS ADDRESS
(No., Street, City and State)

RESIDENCE ADDRESS
(No., Street, City and State)

Miss (Nancy Payne)

(402 Hanover St.,)
Fredericksburg, Virginia

Lt. and
Mrs. (William Faulman)

c/o Lee Pelts,
Route 1, Kennett, Mo.

- 13 - 61

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECTION XXII CLUBS, SOCIETIES, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

NOTE: List names and addresses of all clubs, societies, professional societies, employee groups or organizations of any kind
(Include membership in, or support of, any organization having headquarters or branch in a foreign country) to which you belong or have belonged.

| NAME AND CHAPTER            | ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Country)  | DATES OF MEMBERSHIP |          |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| Spanish Club                | (San Marcos) High School, 10 (San Marcos) Texas | FROM                | TO       |
|                             |                                                 | Sept.,1954          | May 1955 |
| Distributive Education Club | (San Marcos) High School, San Marcos), Texas    | Sept., 1954         | May 1955 |
| Baptist Youth Organization  | First Mexican Baptist Church, San Marcos, Tex.  | Jan., 1957          | May 1957 |
|                             |                                                 |                     |          |
|                             |                                                 |                     |          |
|                             |                                                 |                     |          |
|                             |                                                 |                     |          |

SECTION XXIII RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

| ADDRESS - LAST RESIDENCE FIRST (Number, Street, City, State, Country)       | INCLUSIVE DATES |             |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | ----------- |
| (4736 Kenmore Ave., #201) Alexandria, Virginia                              | FROM            | TO          |
|                                                                             | March, 1961     | Aug., 1961  |
| (402 Hanover St.) Fredericksburg, Virginia                                  | Dec., 1960      | Mar., 1961  |
| 172 Bartolome Herrera, Miraflores Lima, Peru                                | Jan., 1960      | Nov., 1960  |
| USIS Building, 3rd & 4th Floors, Calle Potosi, La Paz, Bolivia              | Nov., 1958      | Jan., 1960  |
| "F" Company, Headquarters Marine Corps, Henderson Hall, Washington 25, D.C. | Sept., 1958     | Nov.,1998   |
| Cold Weather Training Battalion, Pickle Meadows, Bridgeport, California     | Jan., 1958      | Aug.,1958   |
| Marine Corps Base, 29 Palms, California                                     | Dec., 1957      | Jan., 1958  |
| Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego, California                           | July.,1957      | Nov., 1957  |
| Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton, California                               | Nov., 1957      | Dec., 1957  |
| 501 S. Guadalupe St., San Marcos, Texas                                     | May 1956        | July, 1957  |
| Howard Payne College, Brownwood, Texas                                      | Sept., 1955     | May, 1956   |
| (501 S. Guadalupe St., San Marcos) Texas                                    | 1946            | Sept., 1955 |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECTION XXIV ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

1. DO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOCATED; OR ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF; OR HAVE YOU EVER SUPPORTED OR BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH ANY POLITICAL PARTY, INDIVIDUAL OR ORGANIZATION WHICH ADVOCATES OR TEACHES THE OVERTHROW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES BY FORCE, VIOLENCE OR OTHER UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS, OR SEEKS BY FORCE OR VIOLENCE TO DENY PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES?

   X NO

2. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, EXPLAIN

YES

3. DO YOU USE OR HAVE YOU EVER USED INTOXICANTS?

X NO

4. IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?

YES

5. DO YOU USE OR HAVE YOU EVER USED NARCOTICS?

X NO

6. IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?

YES

7. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF, OR SUPPORTED, OR HAD ANY CONNECTIONS WITH A FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION OR ITS ACTIVITIES?

X NO IF ANSWER IS "YES", GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS.

8. LIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCE 1940

I served 4 years in the United States Marine Corps.

9. IF TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAVE CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF YOU, INDICATE THE NAME OF THE AGENCY AND THE APPROXIMATE DATE OF THE INVESTIGATION.

An investigation ( I do not know by whom) was conducted prior to my departure for Bolivia where I was attached to the American Embassy. This investigation took place during August and September of 1958.

NOTE SPECIAL If your answer is "YES" to the following Questions 10, 11 or 12, provide the information requested for each question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.
INSTRUCTIONS

10. HAVE YOU, OR TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE HAS YOUR SPOUSE, EVER BEEN DETAINED, ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF THE LAW OTHER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION IN THE UNITED STATES OR ABROAD?

X NO

IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT, CITY, STATE, COUNTRY, DATE, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIAL INSTRUCTION ABOVE.

11. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, COURT-MARTIALED OR OTHERWISE PUNISHED UNDER MILITARY LAW OR REGULATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE INCIDENT(S) AND PROVIDE DATE(S) OF OCCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

X NO

YES

12. ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE, NOT MENTIONED ABOVE, WHICH MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION, WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE INCIDENT(S) AND PROVIDE DATE(S) OF OCCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

X NO

# SECTION XXV PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

1. NAME (First-Middle-Last)

Mrs. Daniel Flores

2. RELATIONSHIP

Wife

3. HOME ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

2828 Conn. Ave. #203 Washington 8, D.C.

4. HOME PHONE NO.

(265-8322

5. BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country) - INDICATE NAME OF FIRM OR EMPLOYER, IF APPLICABLE

Boykin and De Francis

1000 16th St., Suite 603, Washington 6, D.C.

6. BUSINESS PHONE NO. & EXT.

(DI 7-5444)

7. IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, OTHER CLOSE RELATIVES (Spouse, Mother, Father) MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED. IF SUCH NOTIFICATION IS NOT DESIRABLE, BECAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER REASONS, PLEASE SO STATE

In all cases wife: Relative, Mrs. (Vicente Patlan) (631 S. River St.)

(Seguin), Texas Telephone (Fr 9-1087)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECTION XXVI CERTIFICATION

YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ANY STATEMENT MADE IN THIS APPLICATION WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

I have read and understand the instructions. I Certify that the foregoing answers are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I agree that any misstatement or omission as to material fact will constitute grounds for immediate dismissal or rejection of my application. I also understand that any false statement made herein may be punishable by law (U.S. Code, Title 18, Section 1001).

1. DATE OF SIGNATURES

September 8, 1961

3. SIGNED AT (City and State)

Washington, District of Columbia

2. SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT

Daniel Flores

4. SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

Nancy Lee Cooley

NOTE: Use the following space for extra details. Reference each continued item by section and item number to which it relates, sign your name at the end of the added material. If additional space is required use extra pages the same size as this page and sign each such page.

MARITAL STATUS: Item #4, Section XII

September 1, 1956 to October 6, 1956. Married to (Lt. Col. Joseph G. Moran) in Portland, Oregon, by Circuit Court Judge. Used name of (Moran) until November 14, 1960, when changed to Flores.

FATHER-IN-LAW: Item #5, Section XVII

Short name for Raymond

GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL: Item #1, Section VI

Argentina 2 July 1959 to 3 July 1959 Travel

Panama 10 November 1958 to 13 November 1958 Travel

SEE ATTACHED SHEET FOR PERTINENT INFORMATION RELATIVE TO STEP-MOTHER.

Signed at Washington, D. C., this 8th day of September, 1961.

Daniel Flores


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

ATTACHMENT TO FORM NO. 444 - PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

Section XV - STEPMOTHER

Full name: (Concepcion R.) Flores

Living: Yes

Other Names She Has Used: None to my knowledge

Current Address: 501 S. Guadalupe Street, San Marcos, Texas

Date of Birth: December 8, 1914

Place of Birth: Mexico

Citizenship: Mexican

If Born Outside U.S. - Date of Entry: December 8, 1922

Place of Entry: Unknown

Former Citizenships: None

Occupation: Homemaker and Missionary

Present Employer: (Mexican Baptist Church, SanMarcos, Texas

Never served in Military or other Government service to my knowledge.

This paper is attached to and hereby made a part of Form No. 444.

![Signature of Daniel Flores]

Daniel Flores


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)