# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET #4 Feb 1954

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry

FROM: FI/ANALYSIS NO. HCSA-825

DATE

| TO             | ROOM NO     | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D  | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS             |
| -------------- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------- | ------------------ | -------------------- |
| 1. WH          | Charter Eye | 15 Feb     | 15 Feb 1954 | EB                 | Image is illegible   |
| 2. Brl         |             | 15 Feb 54  |             | fo                 | COPY DETACHED-logged |
| 3. May pool    |             | 15 Feb     | 15 Feb 1954 | mgf                |                      |
| 4. Nozzaki     |             | 15 Feb     | 15 Feb      | jzs                |                      |
| 5. Billegly    |             |            | 17 Feb      | AKG                | Copy detached        |
| 6. Holmdu      |             |            |             | af                 |                      |
| 7. Admin/Lynch | Newton      | 23 Feb 58  | 24 Feb      | ffa                |                      |
| 8.             |             |            |             |                    |                      |
| 9. CW/t        |             |            |             | gck                |                      |
| 10.            |             |            |             |                    |                      |
| 11.            |             |            |             |                    |                      |
| 12.            |             |            |             |                    |                      |
| 13.            |             |            |             |                    |                      |
| 14.            |             |            |             |                    |                      |
| 15. RI/FI      |             | 1409 L     |             |                    |                      |



|     | ABSTRACT | INDEX |
| --- | -------- | ----- |
|     | ab       |       |

DATE 10 FEB 1954 # FEB 1954

201-0

FORM NO 51-10 1 NOV 53 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 14-00000

TO: Chier, MID

FROM: Chief of Mission, Santiago

DISPATCH NO. HOSA-825

CLASSIFICATION: SOFT

DATE: 4 February 1954

SUBJECT: GENERAL- KUGOWN Operational

SPECIFIC- Termination of Paul D. LANGEVIN

REP: SAGO 903 dated 10 October 1953

1. Attached are a) statement of termination signed by subject and b) agent's service record. Submission of these items has been delayed pending receipt of Field Instruction 236-1. Since this instruction has not been received we are submitting the enclosures to close the record on this case.

2. Paul D. LANGEVIN may be used for recruiting tasks before his permanent departure from Chile in April 1954. His security is not questioned and he has expressed a willingness to perform such tasks..

3. He also requests arrangements for the payment of income tax on his earnings quring 1953. This matter will be handled by cable in view of time element.

4. The following explains the timing of LANGEVIN'S termination: he had been advised that he would be terminated one month after all advances had been liquidaten. This would have been 30 September 1953. This date was also chosen since it was expected that COMENIUS would take over FURIOSO "C" at about that time. COKONTUS did take over the project early in October. However, LANGEVIN did no work during the month of September for which he would be entitled to payment, althoum he presumably was available for duty. The last payment of 357.44 for the eriod 1 through 31 August 195 was in ada addition to the liquidation of his avances although it did not cover a full month fror for the the cate- e-of such liquidation which must have occuried sometime in August. LANGEVIN accepted this as the ist payment nent coming to him số there did not seem to be any voint in forcing another $500 on him foi a period quiing which he cia no woFK.

Attachments
2 aste

2 February 1951

201-088764

![signature of James Collett]

RI CUP/50


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

AGENT SATIS 1100D

1.  AGENT CRYPTORY. GA PSEUDONY Paul D. Langevin (FUR INATOA-1)

2.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION "SURTOSO "C" (PEEROVEL)

3.  AGENT RECRUITED BY Jerome C. Dunbar DATE about "August 1950
    (Contract signed 25 January 1952) ALL OF 52 MOST OF

4.  CAPACITY IN WHICH AGENT SERVED Contiact agent

5.  RATE OF PAY $500 per month

6.  OTHER COMMITMENTS See contract dated 25 January 1952

7.  AGENT DISMISSED BY James G. Collett DATE 31 August 1953

8.  HEASON FOR DISMISSAL Loan to subject liquidatea. No further
    need for him since FAISO "C" taken over by Martin J. COKINIUS

9.  SECURITY RISKS Agent knows various present and past staff
    officers. Had some headcuarters training. Loyalty unquestioned.

IS THE AGENT RECOMMENDED FOR REUSE Only in special circumstances
for minor tasks such as cutout work or recruiting....

10. MANNER OF DISMISSAL Agent acvised at least sixty days in
    advance that his services would be term nated as soon as financial
    obligation to KUBANK liquidated.

11. LETTER OF TEIN NATION SIGNED Yes

![photo of signature]

ATT#ITO HCSH P25

201-022769


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1 October 1953

1.  The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of US$357.44 payed to his bank account during September 1953 and agrees that with this payment all financial obligations to him under his contract dated 25 June 1952 have been liquidated.

2.  The undersigned further acknowledges that information of a security nature received by reason of his association with the organization spall never be revealed to unauthorised persons under any circumstances.

![signature]

ATT #2 TO HCSA 825

ACSA
201-088-764


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

## CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

![classified message block]

DATE: 4 FEB 54

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: SANTIAGO

ACTION: WH 4

INFO: FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC, PP 2, FI/RI 2

SAGO ODS (IN 15654) 2136Z 4 FEB 54 ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE

TO: DIR CITE: SSAGO

RE: DIR 36656 (OUT 68009) PSYCH

1. LANGEVIN IN SAGO, DEPARTING WITH FAMILY FOR NEW YORK VIA EUROPE ON 15 APRIL 54. TENTATIVELY PLANS TO RESIDE IN LOS ANGELES.

2. LANGEVIN CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN RECRUITING TASK AS EXPLAINED IN HOSA 526 DATED 4 FEBRUARY. WE PREFER THIS TASK NOT BE INTERRUPTED FOR TWO MONTHS. FURTHERMORE THIS TASK MIGHT BLOW HIM FOR USE ELSEWHERE.

END OF MESSAGE

![stamp]

201-088764

CS COPY ABSTRACT INDEX 1967
ENCL

DATE 17 FEB 1954

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

201-088764


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

ORIG: J.W.ISHIDMEN
UNIT: VE/BR.I
EXT: 3934
DATE: 3 FEBRUARY 1954
TO: SR. REP. SARTEAGO
FROM: DIRECTOR, CIA
CONF: WH 4
INFO: FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC,/FI/RI 2

AIR. 24856 (OUT 68009) 20502 3 FEB 54 ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE
TO: SSAGO CITE: DIR

1. LANGEVIN BEING COHIMPLATED CEMPORARY OPERATIONAL USE: SPECIAL PROJECE CUTSIDE YOUR AREA.

2. MANKE EVERY EFFORT DENEGALUE HIS WEEREABCUTS. INFORM HQS.

END OF MESSAGE

![Signature of C. King]

201-088764

![Abstract and index information]

DATE 4 FEB 1954

![Signature of Raford W. Herbert]
RAFORD W. HERBERT
C/WE/ER.I

201-088764
3 FEBRUARY 1954
AUTHENTICATING.OFFICER
Copy No.

![classified message banner] SECRET COORDINATING OFFICER'S SECRET IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

FORM NO 35--85
NOV 1951

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

IN 26965

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

TO: DIRECTOR, MMA

FROM: SR REP SANTIAGO

ACTION: WS 4

ROUTINE
0400Z 17 OCT 53

INFORMATION: FI/OPS, FI/STC, FI/RI 2

CITE: SSAGO

ADMIN:

REF: DIR 23280 (OUT 91507)

LANGEVIN TERMINATED 31 AUGUST 53. DISPATCH EXPLAINING CHANGE FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

![stamp with information regarding file origin]

![stamp marking document as secret]

201-088764

170CT 53
COPY NO.

201-088764

ero 16-6592-1.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment mustered to correspond with the number in the "To" column. Each officer should initial.

Check mark insufficient before further routing sheet should be returned to

FROM:

MICROFILMED

JUN 17 1964

DOC. MICRO. SER.

| TO  | ROOM NO. | DATE RECD FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS |
| --- | -------- | --------------- | ------------------ | -------- |
Jau
NWC |  | MAR 1 1950 | AWD | TCS/PRG/5WH/2 red/ 10 march 50
Mies Claypool. |  | 14 march | mi je | CID checked 14 mas. 50-3-12-5
Rilmis |  |  |  | nonrecord archives 14 thas.
|  |  |  | assigned Phantom I
|  |  |  | 1-C3-A-967
Rilps |  |  |  |
R/Fi/SP |  |  | mt |

FORM NO. 51.10

APR 1949

SECRET
201-33432


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

Instruction: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions completely. If questions do not apply, write "not applicable"
3. Attach blank pages if additional space is needed.

1. Full Name David Atlee Phillips

2. Name in native script

3. Name at birth (if different from 1.) (not applicable)

4. Aliases, nicknames; legal changes (State briefly time, reason and place of use.) In the year 1942 the last name was dropped, for stage purposes-other actor in same show with same name in N.Y.

5. a. Date of birth Oct. 31, 1922 b. Place of birth Fort Worth, Texas

6. Present citizenship, race if appropriate U.S. White

7. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (if different from 6.) (not applicable)

8. Present residence (Owner, tenant, sub-tenant.) Los Castanos 333, Vina del Mar, Chile Tenant

9. Permanent address (if different from 8.) 714 Neil P. Anderson Bldg. Fort Worth, Texas

10. Present occupation (full title, salary etc.) Publisher and editor of The South Pacific Mail. No salary

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United States.
    (Give date and name in which certificate granted.)

12. Relatives, friends, correspondents in United States. (Explain relationship) Veran Allesandroff, friend, CO E. 42 St. New York


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

13. Father all name, occupation, present residence, year and place of birth, nationality at birth and subsequent nationalities.

Edwin Thomas Phillips, lawyer, deceased, born sometime in Texas about 1910, U.S. citizen, no other nationalities. Last residence in Fort Worth, Texas.

14. Mother - same information as 13.
    Mary Louise Young Phillips, executive, deceased, born in Temple Texas about 1892. U.S. citizen, no other nationalities. Last residence in Fort Worth, Texas.

15. Wife (or husband) - full name, maiden name, date and place of birth, date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give data)

(For all previous marriages.) Helen Haaren Phillips, Helen Florence Haasen, born March 25, 1919 in Wisconsin, married June 5, 1945 in Fort Worth, Texas, U.S. citizen only, present address: Los Castaños 333, Viña del Mar, Chile. Previously married to Lt.Com. John Riley, U.S.N. and divorced 1945. (This date may be absolutely correct.) Subject was previously married to John Voorandt, Bloomington, Ill. and divorced in September 1943.

Wife of David Atlee Phillips (201-88764)

16. Children - full names, sex, year and place of birth, nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence.

Maria Louise Phillips, female, born August 8, 1949 in Santiago, Chile. Chilean citizen at birth but registration at American Consulate in Chile will give her dual citizenship. Los Castaños 333, Viña del Mar, Chile.

17. Brothers and sisters - Same information as 16.

Edwin Thomas Phillips, Jr. male, born about 1917 in Fort Worth Texas. U. S. citizen domiciled at Neil P. Anderson Bldg. Fort Worth, Texas.
James Young Phillips, male, born about 1918, Fort Worth, Texas. 4804 Washburn, Fort Worth. U.S. citizen.
James Olcott Phillips, male born about 1920 in Fort Worth, Texas. U.S. citizen, address 714 Neil P. Anderson Bldg. Fort Worth.

201-33432


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

73/PRQ/5

18. Relatives in service of any government, names and positions held.

(not as Motole)

RES

19. List all official identity papers held with dates, numbers, place of issue
    and duration of validity. Carnet of Identity for Foreigners,
    No. 3013:27 issued in Chile. Valid indefinitely. Other papers
    drivers license, birth certificate, army discharge, etc. but
    they are not with me at the time this questionaire is being filled
    out.

20. Religion - degree practiced, membership in religious orders
    Protestant (Episcopalia.). Moderate practive. No religious orders.

21. Present and past political affiliations
    Support vemocratic Party in principle but have no special-
    Interests or affiliations.

22. Travel outside country of present residence - country, dates,
    purpose, people and firms visited. In 1943 and 1945, traveled
    tarough africa, Italy, Yugoslavia, Germany, France, stc. but
    always because of ailitary service. Also traveled extensively
    in mexico in 1947 as a tourist..

23. Education - school, location, course, degree, dates
    illism and Many, Williamsburg, Vz. Crama and English, no degree,
    in the year 1940.
    Texas Christian University, Fort Worth,
    Texas, English major,
    no degree in the year 1941,

24. Languages and dialects (Indicate proficiency as good, fair, poor.)

Language Spanish Speak Good Read Good Understand Good

Language Frence Speak Poor Read Good Understand Fair

Language German Speak Poor Read Poor Understand Fair


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

FRQ/S

25. Military service - dates, country, unit, rank, duty, where served, services performed, decorations, when discharged, why. Give details if ever prisoner of war.

U.S. Air Force in Feb. 1943 served in U.S. Africa. 488th Bomb Group. Staff Sergeant, armorer-gunner on B-24, Air medal, Purple Heart. Discharged October 31, 1944 on points.

Prisoner of War, Captured by German troops in May 29, 1944 in Yugoslavia after parachuting from crashing plane. Taken to Stalag Luft. 1.I in Poland. Later moved to Stammlager Luft. XIII near Nuremberg, Germany. Liberated by American forces about middle of April 1945. Returned to Camp Lucky Strike in France.

26. Present and past membership in organizations (professional, social, political, etc.)

Actor's Equity, Author's Guild, short membership in Kappa Sigma fraternity at William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.

27. Special skills, abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, etc.)

Athletics, typing, photography, painting writing.

28. Financial status - earnings, bank deposits, securities, property

Present business is new, a newspaper and there is no way to estimate what the profits will be. Bank account in Fort Worth National Bank, Fort Worth, Texas: Income of about $200 par month from real estate in Texas. Mostly from royal interest in oil producing land.

29. Employment history - type of work, salary, dates, employers, addresses, reasons for leaving. Include employment by any government.

Actor, average salary $100 per week. (Employers include Camp Shows Inc., and Interstate Players, New York and Austin, Texas respectively.) From 1941 through 1943. Various stock companies in New York and New England. (Most work done as a free lance writer, however.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

29. (Continuci)

30. Has subject done any writing? Give details including titles of
    books, articles, publishers, dates. Yes, newspaper work generally
    and playwriting specifically. No plays published cut one
    Teh Show Job produced. Iso written under contract for radio.

31. List persons living at same address, close associates, (individuals or
    groups,) correspondents at home and abroad. No other persons living.
    at same address. Close, associates include the pritish and
    American diplomatic personnel in Santiago and Valparaiso, Chile
    Also newspaper man and various friends, many nepresentatives.
    of foreign concerns in this country.

32. List five character references..
    Guy Price, vice President ort month national bank, Fort Worth
    Gilson lake, american Consul. General in Valparaiso, Chile.
    Venant Alessandroni, lawyer, 60 3. 42 St. New York, N.Y.
    Williamalden, President, Chamber of Commerce, Fort Worth,
    David Trammel, lawjer, Fort Worth National Bank: 51dg. Fort Worth

-5-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

## /PRQ/ 5.

33. Court record - court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals, denazification, etc.

34. Description (Use American standards of measurement, if possible.)

|                            |                            |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Age                        | 27                         |
| Apparent age               | 30                         |
| Height                     | 6 Feet                     |
| Eyes                       | Blue                       |
| Face - shape               | Re..gular                  |
| Complexion                 | Fair                       |
| Sex                        | Male                       |
| Posture                    | Good                       |
| Weight                     | 195                        |
| Teeth                      | Even, good condition       |
| Hair                       | Blond                      |
| Scars                      | Under left eye, very small |
| Build                      | Stocky                     |
| General appearance         | Hondescript                |
| Prominent features         | None                       |
| Other identifying features | None                       |

35. Other miscellaneous biographical data and comments.

Came to Chile in 1948 to attend school. At this time, however, publishing and English language paper in Valparaiso, Chile.

(At the moment this questionaire is being filled out, the subject is away from his home and office, without access to papers, and documents: Consequently all answers may not be absolutely correct so far as dates, are concerned.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 5

FILE NO 101-877674

1140 CWT/DLD/11A/DG (CWT)
15 SEP 1959

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: CAH 2

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DO/P, COP, C/CI/C/F2/8/C/2

![checkbox] No GS Record. Destroy.
![checkbox] RI file this copy as indicated
![checkbox] Branch copy filed as indicated
RI: Indexing (check one)
![checkbox] Marked
None req'd

ScScfS15082225959
CRECJWELLSSECT.
ROUTINE

IN 25737
CITE: HAVA 2650

TO: DIR

INFO:

RE: RYBAT, DIR 41815 (OUT 90126)*

Re: GUSTAVO DE LOS REYES in connection with contacts with Michael M. CHOADEN

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| RID/AN  |         |
| RID/MIS |         |
| RI      |         |

DESTROY

301-88764

FORM 1339 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1658 0-663030

(35)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designat should used in the "TO" um. Under each comment a fine should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" cuiunın. Each officer should initial (eck mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

![N. F.]

| TO          | ROOM NO | DATE    | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS |
| ----------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| 1. Claysial |         | 5 die 5 | mic                | 4 Die 51 |
| 2. M’llaine |         | 7 Dec   | 003                |          |
| 3. Smynt    |         |         | my                 |          |
| 4. Pierce   |         |         |                    |          |
| 5.          |         |         |                    |          |
| 6.          |         |         |                    |          |
| 7.          |         |         |                    |          |
| 8.          |         |         |                    |          |
| 9.          |         |         |                    |          |
| 10.         |         |         |                    |          |
| 11.         |         |         |                    |          |
| 12.         |         |         |                    |          |
| 13.         |         |         |                    |          |
| 14.         |         |         |                    |          |
| 15. -       |         | -       |                    |          |

NO. TCS-4-1741

DATE 24 1951

![RECLASSIFIED]

| RECLASSIFIED |     |
| ------------ | --- |
| RI/AM        | ER  |
| RT/MIS       |     |
| RI/Files     |     |

7 Fee
cable, replain some

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECURITY INFORMATION

VIA: AIR

DISPA. NO TCS-A-1741

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Santiago

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational Matters

SPECIFIC: ZACACTUS, Chile

REF: Sago-360

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 28 November 1951

For CR 10-43

1.  Pursuant to the verbal statements of Dennis K. COPELAND at the Lima Conference of certain Station Chiefs, pertaining to ZACACTUS Operations in Chile, the following suggestions are advanced for Headquarters consideration:

a) Cover for Chile, Official:

The Air Attache, Col. William ROSS, talked at length with General ACKERMAN, Assistant A-2, AFGS, while attending the Panama Service Attache Conference, on the question of providing a replacement for the Air Officer who had originally been scheduled for Santiago Air Attache Office to handle ZACACTUS. ROSS, who is a very intelligent, capable officer, with excellent intelligence experience, told ACKERMAN that he would appreciate being considered for this assignment in addition to his regular duties, as he was keenly interested in this type of endeavor. He was of the opinion that he could devote as large a share of his time to this work as would any other officer so assigned to his office. Furthermore, due to the size of his staff, three officers, he felt he could assign the bulk of his Air duties to his assistants and concentrate his efforts on ZACACTUS matters, which he thought were of greater importance in Chile. General ACKERMAN, according to ROSS, was not adverse to this proposal but stated he would await contact from ZAČACT US Headquarters before considering the matter further.

This Station has high regard for ROSS and is of the opinion that he would apply himself in a very diligent and intelligent männer to the duties of handling ZACACTUS in Chile. He is fully aware of the necessity for discretion, as he had been briefed on this at the time the former ZACACTUS candidate had been considered for the Air Attache Office.

b) Covert field covers: RESTRICTED TO ZWH/i/chile.

This Station highly recommends Headquarters' consideration of FULMINATER-1 as the principal ZACACTUS operator in Chile on a permanent basis. This person is well known to this Station and has demonstrated his ability in handling FULMINATER-2 and the publication of the posters/stickers for the

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

FORM NO.

SAR, 440

51-28 A

Removed to Protect Furioso-c

CS Cinepone

303 123-364/38

Ε 22501-5576(

701-3343レー


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECURITY INFORMATION
SECRET
-2-
TCS-A-1741

UN-ECOSOC propaganda effort. His assets are generally as follows:

1) Cover: He is publisher and editor of a fairly successful weekly news- paper in Child. Although he is at the moment considering the possibility of selling this newspaper, he has been encouraged to defer such action for thirty days pending Headquarters' decision on his case. This paper has its own printing presses and is capable of handling large printing "orders of all types. This activity could be regulated in such a manner that it would only require a minimum amount of FULMINATER-1's time and would provide him with an excellent cover for his ZACACTUS activities.

2) Ability: He is a writer, playwrite, publisher and editor. Those qualifications plus his initiative, imaginativeness, ingenuity and broad intellectual background should qualify him for ZACACTUS operations. He, of course, has an excellent command of Spanish as well as French and German.

3) Contacts: Due to his professional status in Chile, he is on excellent personal terms with all other newspaper publishers, correspondents and editors. He also conducts a radio program and is accordingly well in- formed in this field and has many radio contacts. In view of the fact he originally published his newspaper in Valparaiso, he has many contacts on the coast as well which should be important in this work.

4) Personality: He is considered exceptional both in appearance and per- sonality and has easily acquired the confidence and friendship of Chileans and Americans alike. Due to his wide interests, he is con- sidered very well informed and cultured. His demeanor is always that of a gentleman, yet he is capable of courageous action as evidenned by his war experience and his conduct of assignments for this Station as indicated below.

5) Intelligence experience: He was originally approved operationally to handle the complex Soviet espionage case of FULMINATER-2. His conduct of this case was considered excellent, and he displayed resourcefulness, tact and ability to handle himself in difficult circumstances.

During the LCACTING operations of this Station involving the printing of the posters, stickers, handbills and the "Communist Pig", this Station called on FULMINATER-1 to do the job. It will be recalled that Head- quarters was very pleased with the printing job in this project which FULMINATER-1 had done. This particular project revealed FULMINATER-1's ability to handle ZACACTUS work effectively and with discretion as borne out by the fact that the local Communists were never able to trace the origin of this material.

o). Modus operandis

1) Diplomatic cover: It is süggested that ROSS be dosignated as the control

SECRET-

SECURITY INFORMATION

721-88764
-761-33432


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECURITY INFORMATION
SECRET

-3-
TCS-A-1741

officer for ZACACTUS in Chile and that he maintain the official files,
funds and communications with ZACACTUS Headquarters.

2) ZACACTUS Field Operator: It is suggested that FULMINATER-1 be employed
   on a regular State-side salary basis and that he be authorized a small
   staff to assist him in the actual handling of all field projects. He
   should have one officer assistant in a covert capacity and two stenog-
   raphers, all of whom would be in his overt cover office, presumably as
   his regular employees.

3) Cut-outs, agents, etc.: FULMINATER-1 should be authorized to develop
   such cut-outs, agents, etc. as required to carry out his objectives in
   Chile.

2. This Station is of the opinion that with the exception of possibly Mexico and
   Venezuela, Chile is one of the most important PW targets in Latin America.
   The Communist influence in Chile is unquestionably a serious political factor,
   and their propaganda is growing steadily throughout the country with extreme
   little if any opposition. The present Communist drive towards nationalization
   of the copper industry is gaining adherents daily and should be considered a
   potentially serious matter from the standpoint of our reliance on Chilean
   copper. Thus, it is the view of this Station that PW work is important in
   Chile and that its initiation on a larger scale should not be unduly delayed.
   It is also believed that considerable time, effort and money would be saved by
   utilising the talent now in Chile, such as ROSS and FULMINATER-1, who already
   have their feet on the ground and are ready to start.

3. In the case of ROSS, if Headquarters is interested, it should approach General
   ACKERMAN direct in A-2. Regarding FULMINATER-1, a very tentative approach
   has been made to sound him out, and he reacted very favorably although no
   commitments were made as to salary or exact nature of the work. The moment for
   a decision in his case is very opportune, as he is planning to sell his news-
   paper and leave Chile for the United States or some other country. Recogniz-
   ing the value his paper and presses would have to his cover and his work, he HNG
   was asked, as mentioned above, to postpone selling his paper for thirty deys. 810
   It is believed that he would be an excellent person for ZACACTUS in Chile and
   for future consideration as a Staff Officer. It is not believed that he would
   be interested in any salary less than $5,000 per year although again, this
   subject has not been discussed with him to date. It is urged, however, that
   Headquarters cable this Station as early as practicable if there is any interest
   in obtaining FULMINATER-1 as proposed above.

Dist: 3 Washington
2 Files
osm

SECRET-
SECURITY INFORMATION

Jerome C. Dunbar

221-887684
・201-33432....


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: RID/201-E. Nickerson

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|     | RECEVIED                    | FORWARDED | DATE    | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| --- | --------------------------- | --------- | ------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | RW/Rftyr. Schaffer 3 B 4404 |           | 10/2/66 | Initialed          | Attached are two 201's (201-10721 and 201-10731) which were brought to the attention of the 201 section by Mrs. Roberts of the Childrens desk. She requested that the 201-matter be cancelled since both then are staff employees. 201-10721 is the Deputy Chief of 2 and 201-10731 is the staff employee currently in Berlin. The 201 section may not recall without prior approval of the RD. These are being sent to you for review. The 201's may be either retained by the interested desk on permanent charge or may be cancelled by notifying the 201 section, removing the non-operational material to the Office of Personnel for retention in his personnel file. If the decision is made to retain the file on permanent charge, please notify RID Locator, x-4324. /s/ Jean Nickerson |
| 2.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 3.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 4.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 5.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 6.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 7.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 8.  |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 9.  | RW/201 E. Nickerson         |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 10. |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 11: |                             |           |         |                    | Original routing sheet filed in 201-10731.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 12. |                             |           |         |                    | Request of Julien Goldberger, SR/R&D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| 13. |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 14. |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 15. |                             |           |         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |


(hand-written note)
Have reviewed both 201's, majority of whose contents is operation 1. Doubt anything would be served by recalling retired ops, distributing material, re-retiring them. Please leave as is. (Initialed.)

![signature]

201-88764

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

DISPATCH NO. N77-180

47-1-4

VIA

TO: Chief

FROM: Chief of Station, Beirut

DATE 6 May 1958

SUBJECT: GENERAL-Administrative

SPECIFIC-Request for Official Travel - Michael M. CHOADEN and Family

References: A. FF 22-100, Para 8.a.
B. ALSA-6479

It is requested that Travel Orders be issued for Michael M. CHOADEN who is returning to Headquarters for resignation. The following information is submitted in accordance with instructions contained in reference regulation:

1. Name and position of traveler: Michael M. CHOADEN, staff agent attached to the Beirut Station.

2. Purpose of travel: Return to Headquarters for resignation.

3. Destination: Fort Worth, Texas, residence of subject, with stop-off in Washington for resignation.

4. Estimated date of departure: 5 August 1958.

5. Approximate duration of travel: Three weeks.

6. Desired mode of transportation: Sea.

7. Desired route and stop-overs enroute: American Export Lines from Beirut to Marseilles. Thirteen day stop-over there, on leave, S.S. Constitution, also of American Export Lines, from Cannes to New York. New York to Washington by air.

8. Name and age of dependents who will accompany:

Helen, wife, 39
Maria, daughter, 8
David, son, 6
Arles, daughter, 5
Christopher, son, 1

FORM NO. 51-28 A
MAR. 1945


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

NLBT-186
Page 2.

9. Excess baggage: Normal amount requested.

10. Shipment or storage of affects: Subject plans to ship effects to Havana, Cuba. Subject is not absolutely positive when he and family will go to Cuba, but he prefers to have effects in storage there rather than in U.S.

11. Other items or conditions: Subject may need advance for steam- ship deposits.

12. Not applicable.

Oscar W. Fieseler
Oscar W. Fieseler

APPROVED:
Philip O. Wauls
Chief of Station, Beirut

29 April 1958

Distribution:
5 - Hqs

SECRET

19 MAY 1958


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

15 April 1958
NE-7/LBS/58-399

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT : Mr. David A. Phillips

1. The attached dispatch from the Chief of Station, Beirut, covers the proposed resignation of Mr. David A. Phillips from CIA. The matter was discussed with the Chief of Station during his recent visit to Headquarters, and he feels that Mr. Phillips' decision to return to South America is irrevocable.

2. Mr. Phillips, as you are aware, was in Havana until the spring of 1957, at which time he accepted a staff agent position in Beirut. His primary responsibility was the establishment of a radio and television production center in addition to providing a mriety of covert programs in the psychological field. Mr. Phillips was instrumental in the establishment of a clandestine radio broadcasting station in the area in addition to the more direct responsibilities of his Beirut assignment.

3. The Chief of Station indicated that Mr. Phillips did a highly commendable job while in Beirut and feels his departure from the Middle East is regrettable; however, he was unable to dissuade Mr. Phillips from his desires to leave CIA. Headquarters has been equally impressed by Mr. Phillips' services and feels he performed in an exemplary manner, utilizing his mature judgment and excellent PP sense in attaining the objectives which led to his assignment in Beirut.

![signature of Eugene Milliyyan for Norman S. Paul, Chief, Division of Near East and Africa]

Attachment


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

Retyped from NLBA - 6479

SUBJECT: Future Resignation from CIA of David Phillips

1. In a recent meeting with the Chief of Station, David Fhillips, the PECTATE case officer, informally announced his intention of resigning from CIA in the near future. At that time Phillips requested that Headquarters be informed by the Chief of Station. The decision to resign has been made informally, in order for the Station and Headquarters to have as much advance notice as possible. Actually, Phillips does not expect to leave his Beirut assignment for about four months, or sometime in the month of July. Phillips reports that the PECTATE building will have been finished and occupied by PECTATE staffers long before that time.

2. In the above-mentioned zeeting, and in a Memorandum for the Record submitted to the Chief of Station, Fhillips has emphasized that his decision was reached after careful though and has been prompted solely by personal considerations. Specifically the ressons are:

a. The necessity of Phillips' return to Latin America to take care of personal business problems, mainly the sale of his newspaper in Chile. He has been negotiating for this sale for many months, but he feels that an advantageous agreement would be impossible to reach by mail from such a distance.

b. Phillips' desire to inaugurate a business firm in Cuba.

3. The Chier of Station has discussed this matter with Phillips in detail. Phillips has reiterated--and has requested that Headquarters be so advised--that his decision is purely personal. There is no question of dissatisfaction with CIA, or of a morale problem. On the contrary, Phillips has expressed his regret that circumstances prompt him to terminate what he has described as a most rewarding association with CIA.

4. Phillips' plans for leaving the Beirut assignment bring up the problem of future CIA control of PECTATE. Phillips has submitted to the Chief of Station his personal recommendations on this score, which have been considered in prepering a separate dispatch.

24 March 1958

GHOSN ZOGBY
Chief of Station
Beirut

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# 14-00000

Chief of Station, Beirut

Chief, HEA

CHOFER's Chilean Newspaper

Newspaper's Treatment of Klein-Saks Mission

ACTION REQUIRED: As requested in paragraph 1.

FILE
PECTATE
PERSONNEL
(CHEADEN)

1. Please advise CHATE of the following, which has been received by Chief, a Division, from the CO2, Santiago, regarding CHOFER's newspaper.

2. "...The newspaper owned by CHOFER has been engaging in an all-out campaign against the Klein-Saks Mission and their economic program for Chile. While the newspaper in itself is not terribly important, the Embassy has become disturbed because of the newspaper being owned by an American. Recently the Ambassador called in the local editor of the newspaper and asked for an explanation. He replied that he was himself in complete accord with the Klein-Saks program and that his hands were tied as he was acting upon instructions from his publisher. Personally, I think that that was probably not true but was simply a means of passing the buck to extricate himself from a difficult situation. I do not believe that CHOFER is very much au courant with the activities of the newspaper and that its policy is left pretty much in the hands of the local editor. Unfortunately, the Air Attache, who has been here for a considerable period, mentioned to the Ambassador that he thought I might be able to throw some light on the situation due to the fact that he, himself, knew HEA had some sort of cooperation with HEA. I stated if there was such a connection, I was not cognizant of it. Nevertheless, I think that the most circumspect thing that could be done would be to apprise CHOFER of what is going on on his newspaper, so that he could correct the situation if he so desires. I understand the Ambassador intends to write a very strong letter directly to CHOFER. A strong statement in reply could very well avoid embarrassment at a future date for E.

DESENSITIZED
PER CON 43-26
SEURI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

MIJM-4251
Page 2

3.  CASA may find it more desirable to postpone his strong letter of reprimand to his editor in Chile until he actually receives a letter on this matter from the Ambassador, unless he can feasibly explain the anti-American attitude of his Chilean newspaper through overt sources.

NORMAN S. PAUL

19 December 1957

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addr.
1 - CHEA
2 - N-7IAS
1 - Chile Chrono

NE-7/1&S/RGoralskijr


DD/P
C/WH
CNE-7
CNEA
![CNEA declassified stamp] per CSN 43-25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director, PLANS

6 December 1957

SUBJECT: David A. PHILLIPS - Current Attitude of Newspaper in Chile owned by;

1. It is recommended that the attached be brought to the attention of David A. PHILLIPS, with an expression of HUS' views on the situation.

2. David A. PHILLIPS is a KURARK Staff agent presently serving overseas and most probably is, as Rafford W. HERBERT suggests, NOT aware of the current attitude of the paper (SOUTH PACIFIC MAIL - weekly English Language newspaper); however, it is believed that if the situation were brought to his attention, and copy of the attached self explanatory letter forwarded to him, he would be able to correct it promptly by a letter to the editor outlining the policy he, the owner, wishes the paper to follow.

![signature]
C. U. KING
Chief, WH

Attachment:
2 cys of Ltr - AYEAT

![stamp] per CSA 43-26

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

HCSA - 5109

15 November 1957

Dear J. C.*

This is to advise you of a situation that might possibly becare embarrassing for AUBARK. In recent months the newspaper here owned by David A. Phillips*, has been waging an all-out c mpaign against the Klein-Cars Mission and their economic progrem for Chile. While the newspaper in itself is not terribly irportant, the Embassy has become disturbed because of the newspaper teing owned by an American. Recently the ambassador called in the local editor of the newspaper and asked for an explanation. He replied that he was himself in complete accord with the Klein-Saks progres but that his hands were tied as he was acting upon instructions from his publisher. Personally, I think that that was probably not true but was simply a reans of passing the buck to extricate himself from a difficult situation. I do not believe that Phillips is very much "eu courant" with the activities of the newspaper and that its policy is left pretty much in the hands of the local editor. Unfortunately, the Air Attache, who has been here for a considerable period, mentioned to the Ambassador that he thought I might be able to throw some light on the situation due to the fact that he, himself, knew that Phillips had sone sort of connection with KUBARK. I stated that if there was such a connection that I was not cognizant of it. Nevertheless, I think that the most circumspect thing that could te done would be to apprise Phillips of what is going on on his newspaper, so that he could correct the situation if he so desires. I understand the Ambassador intends to write a very strong letter direct'y to Phillips. A strong statement in reply could very well avoid embarrassment at a future date for KUBARK.

Rafford W. Herbert*

* - Fseučcayn used in original letter received from field.

![scribbles]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHELT

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be dracross sheet
and cach comment numbered to correscind with the number in the "TO" column Cach officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing This Rosting and Record Sheet should be returned Registry

FROM:

IR

|     |                                           |         | MICROFILMED                                   |
| --- | ----------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------- |
|     |                                           |         | JUL 25 1963                                   |
|     | TO                                        | ROOM NO | DATE  OFFICER'S READ DOC. FWD. MICRO INITIALS |
| 1.  | WHD.    ATRI E                            |         | me                                            |
| 2.  | NWC    DEC 11 1351                        |         | are                                           |
| 3.  | Clayport    11 Dec 11                     |         | mye                                           |
| 4.  | Tuchellops    14 Dec                      |         | oor                                           |
| 5.  |                                           |         |                                               |
| 6.  |                                           |         |                                               |
| 7.  |                                           |         |                                               |
| 8.  | mve    12 Dec                             |         | mye                                           |
| 9.  |                                           |         |                                               |
| 10. | R/es    MAY 18 1957. PROCESSED THRU RI/CO |         |                                               |
| 11. | R/FI                                      |         |                                               |
| 12. |                                           |         |                                               |
| 13. |                                           |         |                                               |

|      | NO.  TQS-A-1759 |
| ---- | --------------- |
| DATE |                 |

COMMENTS

COPT ATTACHED
PHILLIPS, Davit
ATLEE

* Fulminater-1

INTELLIGENCE
DEC 7 1951
RECORDS

![photo of the table with abstract and index sections]

|     | ABSTRACT | INDEX   |
| --- | -------- | ------- |
| 14. | INDEX    |         |
| 15. | IR  1409 | CS COPY |

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

VIA:

TO: Chief, WED

FROM: Chief of Station, Santiago

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational Matters

SPECIFIC ZACACTUS, Chile

REF: TCS-A-1741

TCS-A-1759
DISP. CH NO.

30 November 1951
DATE:

MICROFILMED
JUL 25 1963
DOC. MICRO. SER.

1. Enclosed herewith is the current issue of the weekly newspaper edited and published by the subject of referenced dispatch.for Headquarters' possible interest.

Dist: 3 Washington
2 Files

INDEX

I ENCL. N.S.M

![signature of Cerome C. Dunbar]

IR COPY

30 Nov 1951
SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET
CIES COPYON


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET
(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

N° SD 25324 A

DATE

I DO HEREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

![signature]

(SIGNATURE)

![David Allen Chronden]

(NAME, PRINTED OR TYPEWRITTEN)

RIGHT THUMB PRINT

WITNESS: William B. Bromell

SECRET

SECRET
(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

N° SD 25324 B

DATE

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG-
NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

![signature]

Michael M. Chronden

(NAME, PRINTED OR TYPEWRITTEN)

RIGHT THUMB PRINT

WITNESS: William B. Bromell

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

Separate Cover Attachment to HKHS-114

Source of Income for Tax Form 1099

Donald M. Turner Associates

1615 Court Square Building

Baltimore, Maryland
