# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This matertal contains information affecting the Nathal Defence of the United States within the meaning of the Rapionage Laws. Tille in USC Sece 783 and 794, the transmisson es reveiation of which in any manner to an unauthorised person la prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00699-64

SUBJECT Julian NOVAS Fernandez

DATE DISTR. 27 August 1964

DATE OF 1964
INFO

NO. PAGES 2 RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

PLACE & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. August 1964

REFERENCES Do Not Reproduce

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Source was shown a photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez
and source identified him as a Cuban intelligence Officer.
Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in
March 1964 and assumed he was a functionary there.

Headquarters Comments

1.  Although source saw Julian NOVAS Fernandez at the Cuban
    Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this
    Agency reveal that source was probably in error in
    assuming that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and
    it is more likely that he was just passing through.
    The following traces by this Agency is the basis for
    this conclusion.

2.  An [official Jamaican source], in a report dated 24 March 1964,
    stated that Julian NOVAS Fernandez arrived in Kingston,
    Jamaica, on 18 March 1964, to take up his duties at the
    Cuban Consulate in Kingston as Commercial Attache. Source
    said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American and
    speaks excellent English. Since his arrival he has been
    especially occupied with girls. It should be noted that

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE        | DIA    | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | OCR | FBI 2 |
| ------------ | ------ | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | ----- |
| REP CINCLANT | CINCSO | I&NS |      |     |     |     |       |

Note. Field distribution indicated by "#")

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

| SA EOB L:NE:5/R  | 1   | CI LIA | 1       | LIB:CANADA | 1   |     |
| ---------------- | --- | ------ | ------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| SA MOR L NE MADR | 2   | CI REA | 3       | I/BRITISH  | 1   |     |
| SA/R             | 1   |        |         | L/WASH/BR  | 1   |     |
| SA/CI            | 1   |        | RID. AN |            |     |     |
| WAVE             | 1   |        |         |            |     |     |

|  |  |  |  |  |  |LIAISON |

|LX-1645 |
|CSCI-316/00699-64|
|NO PROJECT (AMMOG) |

> [Figure: Bottom right corner has 'WMK:LD:swk' written on it and at the far right there is '4/5R' written. ]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2-

his wife did not accompany him and source speculated that her
arrival may be delayed in view of NOVAS' present inclination for
feminine diversion.

3. In a report dated March 1964, this same source said that
   Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the Cuban Commercial Attache at the
   Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, was born on 2 September 1938,
   in Habana, Cuba. He carried diplomatic passport D/64/90 which
   was issued in Habana on 20 February 1964. His home address was
   given as Carman No. 18, Vibora. He arrived in Kingston from
   Mexico on 18 March 1964, on Mexicana Flight Number 305.

4. This same source, in a report dated 28 April 1964, stated that
   the wife of Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the recently arrived Cuban
   Commercial Attache, arrived in Kingston on 22 April 1964,
   via México. Her name is Amarilis Marta VALDES Hijuelos and
   she was born on 19 May 1937, in Jiquani, Oriente, Cuba. VALDES
   has been indisposed since her arrival in Kingston; this is
   probably due to her advanced pregnancy. Her home address in
   Cuba is Avenida 31, Number 3622, Habana. She carried diplomatic
   passport D. 64/239, issued in Habana on 9 April 1964.

5. This same source, in a report dated 9 May 1964, noted that
   the salary and allowances of the new Cuban Commercial Attache,
   Julian NOVAS Fernandez, suggests that he is the new Cuban
   Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica, succeeding Gerardo
   SANCHEZ Robert.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)