# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/SUBJECT/VOLUME: LAMMEHOUSE-1, SIA, EDUARDO MELES
All Poet-14

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1960-1921

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD JCCICY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| manchlin      | 2             |                          | 20                              |
| 3/13/78       | 3/13/78       | Lolie Wizelman           | Lishe Wyekman                   |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

![APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994 CA-REVIEW PROGRAM]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Eduardo WHITEHOUSE Insua

24 June 1971

1. On 22 June 1971. Mr. Ed Sullivan, WH/Security officer, informed DC/WH/COG that he had been advised by SOD that Mr. WHITEHOUSE was in Miami and had some information which he would like to pass to the Agency. Mr. WHITEHOUSE, a Cuban, was a pilot during the Bay of Pigs Invasion and was under contract with the Agency from November 1964 to April 1965 as a pilot under the WITHRUSH Project in the Congo. He has not worked for the Agency since that time.

2. Mr. Sullivan requested SOD to have Mr. WHITEHOUSE use the Domestic Contact Service channel in Miami for passing his information to us.

3. File: 201-300614.

![signature of Chris Hopkins]

Chris Hopkins
WH/COG/SA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

ORIG: RICHARD HARRINGTON:ljo
UNIT: WH/2/HD&ES
EXT: 7163/1946
DATE: 23 JULY 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONFI: WHS

FILE. VR. FLAN, POP. HOOP ES/OC Sone aculopsalizne.


SECRET

TO PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO PRIORITY TEGUCIGALPA, SAN SALVADOR
IUSTEER

1. MORNING 23 JULY 1969, IUSTEER PHONED HQS CASE OFFICER AND STATED TEDDY WHITEHOUSE (201-300614) AND UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN ATTEMPTING HIRE CUBAN PILOTS MIAMI AREA TO FLY F-51 AIRCRAFT TO EL SALVADOR. IUSTEER SOURCES, WHO WERE FOUR CUBAN PILOTS WHO REFUSED OFFER, SAID WHITEHOUSE AND ASSOCIATE BEGAN RECRUITMENT EFFORT CIRCA 14 JULY 1969. WHITEHOUSE OFFERING DEPOSIT $20,000. IN PILOTS BANK ACCOUNT PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE FOR EL SALVADOR IF PILOT AGREES FLY PLANE TO ELSALVADOR AND IN COMBAT.

2. IUSTEER PHONED INFO TO HQS CASE OFFICER WHEN UNABLE CONTACT WH/MIAMI. HQS ATTEMPTING RECONTACT IUSTEER VIA PHONE ORDER OBTAIN FOLLOWUP INFO INCLUDING IDENTITIES ANY PILOTS WHO HAVE ACCEPTED, NAME OF AMERICAN WHO WORKING WITH WHITEHOUSE, IDENTITY OF THEIR EL SALVADOR CONTACT, LOCATION OF PLANES, ETC. IUSTEER DUE DEPART MIAMI BY END OF WEEK AND NOT AVAILABLE TO WH/MIAMI AFTER 25 JULY 1969.

MICROFILMED

SEP 11 1969

DOC. MICRO. SER.

CS COPY

SECRET

CONTINUED

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.(OVER)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

ORIG:

UNIT:

DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF:

TO Γ

(classification)
SECRET

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(date and time filed)
(site)
(reference number)
(place)
CITE DIRECTOR 73281

PAGE TWO

3. REQUEST WH/MIAMI ADVISE ANY CONFIRMATION THIS REPORT AND
   ANY FOLLOWUP DATA FROM IUSTEER IF POSSIBLE OR OTHER SOURCES.

4. FILE: 201-283488 AND 201-300614.

END OF MESSAGE

Robert H. Life
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

C/SOD/AB Paul Gottke (in draft)

WH/COG

JOHN C. MURRAY
AC/WH/2

RELEASING OFFICER
COPRODEDROLOSANCERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OF… IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME CHECK
DATE: 7 APRIL 1967
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, ROGELIO ENRIQUE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME TRACE
DATE: 7 APRIL 1967
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO ROGELIO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Miami, Fla. August 23 1965

Mr. Gerald Sounders
P.0. Box 831
Miami, Fla.

Dear Jerry:

Wish to thank you for your personal concern and satisfactory solution obtained in the financial settlement of my case.

I consider it a privilege to have worked with you, cooperating in a small way to preserve Democracy in the Republic of Congo.

If I can ever be of service to the United States -beloved country of my ancestors- I would consider it a high honor.

Do let me hear from you and feel sure that I am your devoted friend.

Sincerely,

![signature of Eduardo J. Whitehouse]

Eduardo J. Whitehouse

446 N. E. 39th St
Miami, Fla.

MICROFICHE

![23 AUG 65 201-300614]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

20 August 1965

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief/KUCURL/HENGEN

FROM : Edward W. LORENTZ

SUBJECT : Eduardo Whitehouse

REFERENCE : Dir-35418

1. Edward W. LORENTZ met with Eduardo Whitehouse on 17 August 1965, relative to finalizing the Whitehouse claim for monies still due from his previous contract. LORENTZ emphasized that he was authorized to pay monies due per contract through 7 April 1965, plus a four day layover in Rome during Whitehouse's return to the U.S. This layover was due a Panam strike of which Whitehouse was inadvertently delayed through no fault of his own.

2. The aforegoing authority is based on ref and calculated as follows:

A. Base Pay for March - USD 800.

B. Base Pay 7/30 for April - USD 186.66
plus USD equivalent of USD 41.00 for actual expenses while 2½ days in Rome.

C. Total USD 1027.66.

3. Whitehouse although feeling that he should be allowed the full amounts due amounting to USD 1950.00 has accepted such adjudication of his claim. LORENTZ feels that possibly he was sufficiently satisfied that he received any funds, that probably in his sense of fair play that the case might be considered closed. For the record, what medical treatment received by Whitehouse amounted to under USD 200. To further complete the record the following attachments are enclosed:

A. Letter from Dr. Elkhoury.

B. Second letter from Whitehouse to Jack Anderson, Leop.

C. Letter from Whitehouse to LORENTZ.

D. Bills of actual charges in Rome.

E. Receipt from Whitehouse for final payment.

F. Station memo concerning newspaper inquiry.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

4. Less than 24 hours after facing Whitehouse to advise him that his claim of USD 1950 had been reduced to 1027.66, Whitehouse reacted with the newspaper media in an exemplary manner when he could have reacted with a adverse feeling. The Subject despite difficulties encountered in the field with KUBARK advisors appears to be man of honor and certainly under controlled situations ASA professional pilot and could be an asset to KUBARK interests.

![signature of Edward W. Lorentz]

Edward W. LORENTZ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

POLYCLINIQUE DU
DOCTEUR L. ELKHOURY
Avenue Vanlaere
LEOPOLDVILLE-KALINA
Téléphone 3259
Boîte Postale 1178 Kin I

Le soussigné certifie
avoir soigné Mlle Whittham
pour de très débiles mucus-
végrétatives accompagnées
d'une forme suppurations.
Comme le traitement n'a
pus amélioré son état de
santé, je recommande
à Mlle Whittham de rentrer
dans son pays pour son sesfuès
d'am mon avis il sichliera
de nos soins spéciaux.

201-300 614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Minn, Fla. June 10th 1565

Col. J ck Avcrson
Chief, Air Opcrations
Leej cillo
Commc.

Darr Jack:

I also find attached a copy of my letter relatim S submitting my resime to Miami For Frop ?. If I'm lucky, I'll be able to return /s chip. Of course, this means that I had forwarded it to the "VIP", L.A. office. (George Miami) & the U.S.A. Better stop interest in writing-one last petition U.C.,-will visit Miami, otherwise I would have to know the move to the "VIP" for the notification.

I am naturally wait the opinion of the B.S. & Miami. I see that nobody will be there. Since I cannot and regret my lap. I shall change this cure.

I say that when I ask him to do so. I still I imagine your work is over in W. Gr.

Do you will not about I C. residing at I Gols S/S. After Jack is the first on the back card who is will ask you with to incarrge

c:

Danny: Hope you are in good health. Do wish to see you.

Reunion when I Landre


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Miami, Fla. August 13 1965

Mr. Jerry Sounders
P.O. Box 331
Miami Int. Airport
Miami, Fla.

Dear Mr. Sounders:

Three months have passed by since my return from Leopoldville and as I explained to you in our past meetings, the amounts corresponding to the basic pay of March, April and up to the 13th of May, when my contract expired- are still unpaid therefore leaving an outstanding balance of $1950.00 in my favor.

Although I appreciate your concern in this case, I wish to inform you about certain facts concerning my work in the Congo that will explain how every cent of the mentioned amount was earned.

When pilot Fausto Gomez was shot down near Bunia -Dec. 17th 1964- that Air Base became paralized as two of the pilots resigned and the only one remaining was ready to leave. Every one refused to take charge of the Bunia Base because of the proximity of the rebels, dangerous terrain, living conditions below standards, improper food, etc. Under these adverse circumstances I accepted the position of Chief Pilot and left the confortable quarters of Stanleyville. Arrived to Bunia Dec. 25th 1964 and next day reasumed full air operations against the rebels flying two and three missions per day as squadron leader with new unexperienced pilots. Those pilots did not have shooting, combat maneuvering instruction, therefore I instructed them and also in Dead Reckoning, instrument flying, etc. We hit the enemy day by day forcing them to retreat to the very border of Northeast Congo. M. Godofreid Munongo -Minister of the Interior- personally congratulated us for our accomplishments in behalf of the Congo.

When I became ill, due to improper food, parasites, etc.. I was ordered back to Leopoldville for medical treatment. Unable to recover and having lost 25 pounds, Dr. Elkhoury suggested Ię return to Miami for a more adequate treatment. Photostatic copy of certificate are attached. Left Leopoldville April 3 1965 with the understanding that my contract was not being cancelled.

I sincerely believe that my work and dedication throughout the entire campaign in Northeast Congo deserved the full payment of the mentioned contract.

Your consideration to this matter would be appreciated.

Sincerely,

E. J. Whitehouse

cc: Mr. H. R. Telford
Mr. Robert Blake


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

VIAFXX SETTEMBRE 30
TEL. 463038

App. N.

Sig. WHITE HOUSE

|                                | 3     | 4     | 5      |       |     |     |
| ------------------------------ | ----- | ----- | ------ | ----- | --- | --- |
| Appartamento                   |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Arrangiamento                  | ½     | 2.500 | 6.250  | 5.600 |     |     |
| Domestici                      |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Piccola colazione              |       |       | 300    |       |     |     |
| Uva - Frutta                   |       |       | 500    |       |     |     |
| Caffetteria                    |       | 2500  | 400    |       |     |     |
| Spremute                       |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Colazione                      |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Pranzo                         |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| RISTORANTE                     |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Gelati - Pasticc. - Sandwiches |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Vini                           |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Liquori                        |       |       | 500    | 500   |     |     |
| Birra                          |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Acqua Minerali                 |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Bibite                         |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Bar                            |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Autobus                        |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Bagni                          |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Capi                           |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Riscaldamento                  |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Biancheria - Stireria          |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Telefono                       |       | 15    | 15     |       |     |     |
| Totale dal giorno              | 2.500 | 8.750 | 7.315  |       |     |     |
| Riporto                        |       | 2.500 | 15.00  |       |     |     |
| Totale                         |       |       | 198.60 |       |     |     |
| Pagamenti                      |       |       |        |       |     |     |
| Totale                         |       |       | 251    |       |     |     |
| Imposta d'entrata              |       |       | 50     |       |     |     |
| Bollo di Quietanza             |       |       | 38.84  |       |     |     |
| Servizio                       |       |       | 165.67 |       |     |     |
| TOTALE GENERALE                |       |       |        |       |     |     |

I Sigg. Clienti sono pregati di pagare il conto entro il giorno della presentazione.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

A. BERGO REALE - Roma
VIA XX SETTEMBRE, 30
Camera N. 401
O. BONETTI Prop.

Sig. WHITE HOUSE

Telefono interurbano 1500

I.G.E. 23
Bollo 17
TOTALE 1540

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 2

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION:

SCDI

INFO:

RID COPY ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED

FILE, IR, AFT, WH/08, 052

SECRET 190048Z

19 AUG 55 IN 35137

DIR CITE WAVE 5185

CHAPPIE ITHRUSH SECUR PERUMEN

REF: WAVE 5:24 (3510)

IDENTITIES: A. JANICE MIYATA, AKA JANICE ROMAN, CLAIMS

SECRETARY TO IDEN B.

B. ROBERT ROGERS, NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY.

SECRET

CFN 5105 5104 A JANICE MIYATA AKA JANICE ROMAN B ROBERT ROGERS

NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY

MICROFICHE

19 AUG 65

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFIED TO FILE NO.
TOTAL COPIES 2

FILE DIST. TO FILE NO.

FILE DIST. TO BRANCH
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

DESTROY SIG.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

FROM

Im Welve

ACTION

5656 RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED
UNIT
TIME
BY
INFO
FILE NP, A57, W/H/CZ, 052

SEC A - 1300482

DIM CITE WASH D.C.

CHAFFIN (ST. RUSH) SECUR. PHROMEN
19 Aug 65 PM 35139
LORENIZ MIAMI SENGS

1.  EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE WAS CONTACTED BY TELEPHONE ON 18 AUG

*   IDEN A REPRESENTING IDEN B REQUESTING AN INTERVIEW FOR PURPOSE

OBTAINING BACKGROUND INFO ON PER/SEN FRUIS IN CONJUNCTION WITH

PROPOSED TRIP TO CONGO. WHITEHOUSE REFERRED IDEN A TO TUSTEER

2.  TUSTEER RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL FROM IDEN A REQUESTING
    SAME INFO TUSTEER ADVISED WHITEHOUSE WAS ACQUAINTED WITH SOME

PHROMEN FRUITS IN CONGO AS HE HAD NO OFFICIAL CONNECTION AND COULD

ADD NOTHING FURTHER

3.  INDICATIONS ARE IDEN B PROBABLY SAME SUBJ. WAVE 9305 (RIBAT)

AT A SECONDING, TO ADVISE POSSIBLE IMPACT ON CONGO OF IDEN B AND

SOME INDICATION PROBABLY IN A GOOD DESIRE TO INTERVIEW WITH ANGOLA PILOTS

AND SPECULATE ON PUBLIC REALITY

SECRET

FN, 5104, LORENIZ EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE IS THE KEY PERUMEN A TUSTEER

AND OFFICIAL. B 5853 B

MICROFICHE

19 AUG 65

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

MESSAGE FORM

ORIG WAL:kas.
UNIT OSG/3
EXT 4478
DATE: 12 AUG 1965
TOTAL COPIES-26
54 SECRET
FILE IN CS PILE NO. 201-300814

*   DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH
    ROUTING

TO: WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)
13 AUG 65

FROM: DIRECT

SIG CEN
COD: SOD 6 FILE RID COPY WH/C 8 AF7, CI/OA

TO WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)
CITE DER
35418

CHAPPY TITLUSH PBRUMEN

RAP: E 4430 (IN 21101).

EE REP AND TELECON WITH LORENTZ 5 AUG, RECOMMEND

COSE OW) BE PAID SALARY THROUGH 7 APR 65 (DATE RETURNED
MIAMI) AND ALL MEDICAL EXPENSES DUE ILLNESS RELATED CONGO TOUR.

HOS DEANS THIS SETTLEMENT GENEROUS IN VIEW W PERFORMANCE IN
CONGO, GROUNDED SIX WEEKS, RETURNED PRIOR EXPIRATION
CONTRACT, PLUS PIELD EVALUATION AS-MARGINAL PILOT AND TROUBLESOM?

PROBLEM. REALIZE THIS MAKES W SHORT FIVE WEEKS SALARY;

AS PROT. HAND KUBARK SHORT ELEVEN WEEKS HIS CONTRACTED SERVICES

2.  FYI, FROM REVIEW W 201 FILE, BELIEVE W REASONABLE ENOUGH

ACCEPE ABOVE SETTLEMENT GRACEFULLY. DESIRE LORENTZ DO UTMOST
SETTLE CASE PER ABOVE TERMS. HOWEVER, IF IT APPARENT W UNHAPPY
ENGUGI TO CAUSE UNFAVORABLE PUBLICITY, LORENTZ AUTHORIZED
NEGOTIATE SETTLEMENT UP TO TOTAL REMAINDER SIX MONTHS SALARY.

END OF MESSAGE

Req iga decision re subj claims for back pay.

13 AUG 65

WILLIAM V. BROE
SOD/AD/OPS/3
201-300614

BERNARD J. PINAN, JR.,
C/SOD/AB

COORUINΑΤΙΝΟ OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 26

BY-SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION SCD6 GRID COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED

ADVANCE COPY

INFO FILE VR WH/C8, AF7, CTIOA

29 JUL 65 m 21101

SECRET 2500400
WAVE-4430
CIR CITE WAVE 4432

CHAPRIS CITIBUS!! POFUEN

TEFE: DIF 31.462

LORENTO MIAMI SENDS:

IF ANY HOS DECISIO RELATIVE TO ELMIDO

CRITIQUE DEFEAT, WHITEHOUSE CLAIN, FOR BACK PAY

(29 JUL 65)
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TO: HENGEN

FROM: Edward W. LORENTZ

SUBJECT: Eduardo Julius Whitehouse

12 July 1965

1.  As we both know the Whitehouse case has been kicked around sufficiently that the finalizing of the case should be effected as soon as possible. My trip with Larry Murphy to Dow Leutcher's office, in my estimation didn't produce any effective decision. Mr. Leutcher's point of view was, if the man was due the money, pay him. If he was not due the money, don't pay him. I will give you the facts as I see them and if you feel that it is prudent to seek the advice of Jack Anderson for his opinion I'm sure it will be most helpful.

A.  LEOP-7030 dated 30 May, indicates receipt of (W) intention to terminate contract effective 13 May. OK

    Additionally, stipulates (W) incapacitated six weeks and requests authorization for immediate return and treatment.

2.  Your 97928 of 1 April, concurs requests of Leop. Additionally, OK you stipulate to terminate contract the day the Subject departs Leop.

3.  LEOP-8028 of 2 April, stipulates that Leop. "terminating (W) contract and returning first available". Requires medical attention not available Leop. Malady due conditions advance basis complicated lact of proper medical attention and maltreatment.

B. Para 2 same message, indicated another medical case (Menedez) would remain Leop dispite fact "he can contribute nothing".

4.  LEOP-8054 states (W) departed 3 April, via PAA, transferring flight in Rome. (W) presented me with three days Hotel bills in Rome to cover what he considered evacuation flight plus PAA on strike.

5.  LEOP-8117 dated 7 April, allowed Perez to depart 8 April and recommended approval to pay full salary till 25 April. (Opinion is this a case of paying a man full salary on one hand while not paying another under the same circumstances)?

6.  DIR-99498 of 7 April, requested details of (W) medical case.

7.  LEOP-7150 dated 28 May, stipulates (W) returned on violation not "Leop request". Instructed contact Heston to execute voluntary termination of contract not executed. (W) departure 3 April not at Leop request. (Opinion in a contractual relationship it appears


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

-2-

highly unlikely to "request" someone to leave or terminate written
agreement. Kouldn't one direct in lieu of request)?

8. WAVE-0832 dated 16 April, gave medical evaluation which was
   reviewed by WAVE Medical personnel. (Opinion - in debriefing of Sub-
   ject I was personally convinced this man was sick. Furthermore. (W)
   advised that he is in possission of medical report by Dr. El Khorury
   that it was manditory for (W) to be evacuated for adequate medical
   treatment.

9. WAVE-k457 dated 3 May, indicated (W) still under going
   continuous medical treatment.

10. On April 19, (W) signed our local Quit Claim Form, but recent
    conversation with the Subject indicated that he felt that although the
    Form was signed that the "company would live up to its promises".

11. There is no doubt that (W) was ill and based upon medical
    opinion, as late as 7 May, in my personal observation that the man was
    incompatiated from performing a full time job that based upon the fact
    that no definitive or written agreement was made prior to departure,
    that the Subject be paid in full for the six months term of his contract.
    (Opinion - there is know doubt in my mind that this man firmly believes
    that he is entitled to the salary based strictly upon the fact that he
    was "evacuated" not terminated.

12. I don't feel the man is unscrupulous enough to blackmail to
    obtain what he feels is truthfully his, but feel positive that he will
    speak to anyone of influence to assist in obtaining back salaries that
    he feels is his. Cite the five reasonably important personnel refer-
    ences that he lists on his Job Application Form. We are not dealing
    with the common type individual using vealied threats, but someone who
    is an intelligent individual who at one time exerted enough influence
    on Jack Anderson to appoint a Chief Pilot and further influence Gen.
    Lewis Walsh into taking action to hire some of his buddys,

![Signature of Edward W. Lorentz]

EDWARD W. LORENTZ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 15 June 1965 js

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, OPS/3/AB/SOD

ATTENTION: David Lamoureux

C# 201-300614

The file on WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo Julius is cancelled and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) το CI/CA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET

![stamp 15 JUN65]
![stamp 201-300614]
![stamp MICROFICHE]

FORM 691


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

LEOP-9150

28 May 65 IN 78194

SET 2518222

DIR INFO JAVE (FOR LORENTZO CITE LFOGP. 9150

REF: DIR 12727

1. BASIC DETAILS SEATON WHITEHOUSE (W) RETURN EXPLAINED LEOP
   7977, 7937. W RETURNED OWN VOLITION NOT LEOP REQUEST.
   INSTRUCTED CONTACT HESTON EXECUTE VOLUNTARY TERMINATION CONTRACT,
   NOT EXECUTED. W DEPARTURE 1 APRIL NOT AT LEOP REQUEST. W
   PREVIOUSLY NOTIFIED STA INTENT TERMINATE CONTRACT END SIX MONTHS.

2. PROVIDING MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS PBPRIME CONFIRMED LOCAL

CLAIM A/S FEEL & NOTIFIED MEDICAL EXPENSES NO COMMITMENTS

MADE NO MEDICAL BILLS ON SALARY.

SECRET

28 MAY 65
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M. D.
2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVA
CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA
25 May 1965

#96

Mr. Roberto Medell
P.O. Box 831
Miami International Airport
Miami, Fla. 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO J.

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse was seen by me 8 April 1965 for a return physical examination. All laboratory and Xray that date was relative the complete physical examination.

The $10.00 charge for treatment included injection, medicine and prostate massage. Ther was no extra Charge for sinus treatment.

Office visits from April 9th through 28th were primarily for his tenseness and apprehension. The only additional charge, relative his sinus condition, was a $20.00 charge for sinus Xrays on April 9, 1965.

WSP:bk

Sinerely yourg,
William S. Piper, M.D.

MICROFICHE
25 MAY 65
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# MESSAGE FORM

ORIG: F. DALY:jg
UNIT: SOD/AB/OPS/3
EXT: 4475
DATE: 20 May 1965

TO: LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SOD 6 INFO: AF 6, WH/C 8, CI/OA, PSR, VR, FILE

TO: LEOP INFO: CITE DIR: 12727
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH BRUMEN
REF: LEOP 8028 (IN 36890)

PLS ADVISE PRECISE DETAILS RE WHITEHOUSE (W) TERMINATION.
REF A. INDICATES TERMINATION BEING ACCOMPLISHED. HOWEVER W NOW STATES HE RETURNED AT LEOP REQUEST (WHILE STILL UNDER CONTRACT) FOR PURPOSE OF CONTRACT-PROVIDED MEDICAL TREATMENT. THEREFORE HE WANTS PAYMENT COVERING PRESENT MEDICAL BILLS AND BACK SALARY.

END OF MESSAGE

AF/5 Tom Baskett (Phone)

E. N. KORN-PATTERSON
AF/OOPS

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.
C/SOD/AB
25 MAY 65

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

O2345 SFOOO
15 May 65

20701

Waitehaim required approximately twenty-five hours H-23 flight instruction Loop prior to field deployment. Functioned very marginally as Chief Pilot Danio and continually requested transfer to multi-engine. Due to apprehension made himself physically and mentally incapable of tactical flight.

It is my opinion that he should not be considered for any future tactical operations and would not be acceptable for reassignment in Congo operations.

20701

Functioned solely as O-46 co-pilot. Was one of the transport pilots, along with Joe Balboa and Valliciarge, that continually hampered transport operations. Is too old and not physically capable of enduring sustained field operations. Indicated desire to return to Congo, but do not feel he could contribute anything to flight operations. Limited to co-pilot only duties which not desirable this operation.

(18 MAY 65)
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

14 May 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOD/Air Branch

SUBJECT: WITHRUSH Contract

1. On Wednesday, 12 May 1965, I discussed with Mr. Dow Letcher, OP/CPD, the WITHRUSH contract with which you are familiar and under which Bouardo Whitehouse served in the Congo. This is the standard contract for Cuban and European WITHRUSH pilot employees. Specifically, I was interested in learning from Mr. Letcher if he believed Paragraph 7 D could be applicable to the case of Mr. Whitehouse since Mr. Whitehouse desires assistance in paying medical bills for a physical disability (which may be temporary) which may have been incurred while he was serving with us in the Congo.

2. This memorandum makes record of the fact that, judging from what Mr. Letcher had to say about the WITHRUSH contract, and also in view of Mr. Ben DeFelice's recently expressed concern regarding the benefits aspects of that contract, action should be taken to review and, if necessary, revise the contract at the earliest possible date. This stems from the strong possibility that Cuban pilots who suffer injuries or disabilities while serving with WITHRUSH may wish, as in the case of Whitehouse, to obtain benefits after the termination of the contract, for conditions which originates during the term of the contract.

3. On 12 May 1965 I provided Mr. Letcher with a draft form of a proposed WITHRUSH contract pertaining to rotary sing aircraft pilots only and asked that he review it and judge its adequacy.

Frank Daly
SOD/AB/OPS/3

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - OP/OSD Attn: Mr. Ben DeFelice

1 - OP/CPD Attn: Mr. Dow Letcher

1 - SOD/PERS

1 - SOD/AB/OPS/3

1 - SOD/RI

1 - Chrono

SOD/AB/OPS 3:F.DALY:kas(14 May 1965)

14 MAY 65

201-300614

MICROFICHE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M.D.
UNIVERSITY CLINIC
2306 POSCL DL LLON ELVD.
COZAL CADLLS, FLORIDA
7 Kay 1965

w. robe odell

OFFICE PHONE: HI 6-6474 RESIDENCE PHONE: MI 8-5105

$ 15.00
Anjoccion, cimus
&-
5. &

32.00
15.00

25.00
=
10.00
7.00

=
15.00
$11.00
trocement $5.00 ..

![Microfiche 7 MAY 65 201-300614]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M. D.
2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVD
CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA
7 May 1965

TELEPHONE
HIGHLAND 6-6476

Mr. Roberto Medell
P.O. Box 831
Miami International Airport
Miami, Fla. 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse has had sinus trouble off and on for many years. This has been increased recently, probably due to pressure changes in aircraft.

It has been advised that he have a nasal operation for deviated septum. This structural defect is in no way related to his occupation.

Sincerely yours,
![Signature of William S. Piper, M.D.]
William S. Piper, M.D.

WSP:bk


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

FROM

Im WAVE

ACTION

D/MS2

INFO

VR. FILE DDP, WH/CY, SODG, AFG, CI/OA.

SECRET 0322412

DIR CITE WAVE 1451

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH MEDIC PBRUMEN

REF: WAVE-8832 (~46796-

LORENTZ MIAMI SENDS:

1. LOCAL CLEARED MEDIC TREATING EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE ADVISES SUBJ
   NOT RESPONDING TREATMENT ACUTE AND CHRONIC SINUSITIS. LOCAL ENT
   EPECIALIST RECOMMENDS SUBMUCOUS RESECTION FOR CORRECTION DEVIATED
   SEPTUM.

2. REQUEST HQS OPINION IF SURGERY CAN BE PERFORMED UNDER TERMS
   OF CONTRACT AND CITE SUBJ WAS MEDICALLY CLEARED PRIOR DEPARTURE
   FOR CONGO.

3. FORWARDING MEDIC REPORT VIA POUCH.

SECRET

CFN # SUBJS MEDICAL CONDITION

SECRET

FRANK -

I HAVE TALKED TO BEN DEFELICE
CONCERNING THIS - WE HAVE
THE ACTION NOW PLZ SEE ME.

LARRY MICROFICHE
3 MAY 65
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

GAPA-0099

Dispatch No. UAFA-0099

Date:

TO : Chief, KUCURL

FROM : Chief, IUPACAN

SUBJECT : WITHRUSH Crew Training Report

REFERENCE : DIR 85744, paragraph 3(D)

Forwarded herewith is subject report of training and pilot evaluation conducted by Carlisle B. FORNEGAR as requested per reference.

Philip L. MUSHER
Chief, TUPAGAN

Attachment:
a/s h/w
s/c (Idens)

Distribution:
0 & 2-NUCURL
2-IUPAGAN

Copy

29 APR 65.

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: WITHRUSH Crew, Training Report

1.  The object of the crew training was to test each pilot on his knowledge of the aircraft systems and emergency procedures and to check ride each pilot and give him refresher training as required.

2.  The following named pilots received ground and flight treining as listed below:

|         | Ground School end paining | Flight Houra          |
| ------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Iden A  | 105                       | 7+20                  |
| Iden B  | 105                       | 1+30                  |
| Iden C  | 105                       | 1+30                  |
| Iden D  | 6400                      | 4+30                  |
| Iden E  | 8:00                      | 4+35.                 |
| Idea F  | 105                       | 5405                  |
| Iden G  | 26+00                     | 7+20                  |
| Iden H  | 2000                      | Obs. 10+40 -Trg. 8+05 |
| Iden: I | 20+00                     | 6+2G                  |

3. Evaluation of each pilot as follows:

a. Iden A - Had flown C-46 about 1200 hours before and was picking it up very nicely. I gave several engine out - single engine landing and go-arounds no flap landing emergency gear extension. Short field landings several ILS approaches.

b. Iden-Was the pilot who cracked up the other C-46, plus he was unwilling to fly at night. I gave him 1½ hours of air time and recommended he be used only as a co-pilot on grounds of poor head work.

c. Iden B He is an older pilot who would bounce the airplane and then sit there waiting for it to hit again, without adding power to let it dom easy. He also wanted to feather the wrong engine after one was cut. Recommended he only be used as a co-pilot.

d. Iden D- He had been flying in and around Iden J for several years, however, in his training he was quite sloppy in his flyfing. he would not come within 20° of assigned heading turns at the begining.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

Also he was very rough with the airplane in pitch contrel. On ILS
approaches he would vary the manifold pressure from 12" to 30" to
try and stay on the gilde slope. On short field landing and take-
off after about six of them he started approaching the procedures
I was trying to show him, but I was convinced as soon as I left the
ares he would return to his own style of flying. I recommended that
at the end of his six month contract which was about 30 days away
he be terminated.

e. Iden E - This wan had previous C-46 experience of about 2000
hours. He slowed great interest and did a good job from the beginning.
I recommended he be used as PIC in C-46*8.

f. Iden F- This man was suppose to have had a good deal of
experience, but his flying left very much to be desired. He had
just been convalescening from amebic dysentery. He replied when
asked, that he felt up to flying but his performance was very poor.
He decided he still didn't feel up to flying and returned to the
doctor's care.

g. Iden G-Had previous multi-engine experience and co-pilot
time in the B-26's. He progressed satisfactory and with 7+20 hours
was released to the field to fly in right seat to observe tactics
and gain more experience before moving to left seat as PIC.

h. Iden H - Had limited experience, however, he was very inter
ested and applied himself to the task of checking out in the B-26K.
He was very helpful in reproducing power limitations and power setting
for the CB-16-17 series engine and also reproduced the Pas pamphlet
on the CB-16-17 series engines, which I had brought along as a train-
ing aid. This was made required reading material for all B-26 drivers.
This man rode along as an observer while Iden Gwas being trained,
which aided him when he started flying. I recommended he also be
released to the field and ride the right seat to observe tactics
and gain more experience before flying missions in the left neat.

i. Iden I - The Chief, Pilot of the group is a very apable
pliot who applies himself very well. He appears to be interested
in improving the professional standards of his pilots. I had
several rides with him (120) until I felt he would be able to
instruct the rest of the pilots in the proper procedures to be
used in the B-20K's.

4. The trafning program was quite curtailed by the restrictions to
   Iden K. Most of the pilots were required to remain out in the field to
   meet operational needs. Also only one B-26 was available in Iden K which


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

-3-

was in check till 18 March and then was not available two other days because of maintenance.

15. I recommend that Air Operations Officers be checked out in the equipment they are supervisors for in order to keep on top of their pilots proficiency. The pilots that are sent over should be screened better so as not to require so much training in the field.

Carlisle B. FORNEGAR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Separate Cover Attachment to
Dispatch No. UAPA-0099

Iden A - Fausto Valdes

Iden B - Jose Perez Menendez

Iden C - Francisco Valliciergo

Iden D - Efrain Morantes

Iden E - Castor Cereceda

Iden F - Theodore Whitehouse

Iden G - Rene Travieso

Iden H - Luis Ardois

Iden I - Jack Varela

Iden J - Africa

Iden K - Leopoldville


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER M. D.
2506 PONCE DE LEON Biva
23 April 1955

TELEPHONE
HIGHLAND 6-6474

Roberto Medell
P.O. Box 831
Miami International Airport
Miami, Fla. 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO J.
445 S.W. 39th St.
Miami, Fla.

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse has been under treatment since 8 April 1955 for acute and chronic Sinusitis which has failed to clear.

He has been seen by Robert Oliver, M.D., ear, eye, nose and throat specialist who has recommended a submucous resection for correction of deviased septum.

I concur with the diagnosis and recommendizion of surry.

Sincerely yours,

William S. Piper, M.D.

WSPl:bk

![date and microfiche number]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO: Chief, OPS/3/AR/SOD

ATTN: David Lazoureux

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA /s/ Edward P. Brown

DATE: 26 April 1965

C NO.: 201-300,614

SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo Julfus

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION VAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS 'REQUESTED
THAT YOU FUPNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECREO BELOW: OR REVIER INFORMATION 'AS INDICATED.

*   PRO I
*   XX PRO 1T
*   FIELD TRACES
*   RI TRACES
*   OPERATIONAL ANG DIVISION TRACES
*   RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
*   GREEN LIST
*   REVIED OF STAFF'D DOSSIER
*   REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
*   REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CIOA
*   DEVITO OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE. MEMO AT CI/OA
*   REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CIVOL
*   REVIES OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
*   X OTHERS (See Remarks)

NOTICE: FIRST SECD.D THIRD AND FINA

REMARKS: POA expired on 26 April 1965. Please submit PRQ

Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interest-in Subject has been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.


FORM 889

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

MICROFICHE

201-300614

(201)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

ACTIC JAYAVE

3006

2.  FILE AFL, NINCS 2/M32, C/AA

SECRET 1623532

DIR CITE WAVE 8832

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH MEDIC PERUMEN

REF DIR 99498

LORENIZ SENDS:

1.  PX SUBJECT WITHIN NORMAL LIMITS EXCEPTED ELEVATED BP 138/184 CHRONIC ACUTE SINUSITIS, RESIDUAL AMOEBIASIS, ACUTE ANXIETY REACTION. RECEIVING MEDICATIONS THESE CONDITIONS UNDER LOCAL COVERT PHYSICIANS DIRECTION 2-3 TIMES WEEKLY.

2.  LOCAL PHYSICIANS RECOMMENDATION SUBJECT HAVE MINIMAL ACTIVITY UNTIL SYMPTOMS ARE RELIEVED AND UNDER CONTROL. NO HOSPITALIZATION EXPECTED.

3.  NO SIGNIFICANT FACTS IN DEBRIEFING ALTHOUGH SUBJECT CLAIMED HE RECEIVED "INJECTIONS" IN LEOP UNDER DOCTOR'S CARE THAT EFFECTED HIS NERVOUS SYSTEM. THIS FACT IS NOT INCLUDED IN MIAMI MEDIC REPORT.

4.  FORWARDING DETAILED REPORT VIA POUCH.

SECRET Y ADVISE ON PHYSICAL EXAM

CFN

![SECRET logo]

(17 APR 65)

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 24

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM
LEOPOLDVILLE
ACTION
AF7
INFO
VR. FILE DOP, H8, SOOC

S ECRET 141345Z

14 APR 65 IN 44880

DIR CITE LEOP 8248

WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

REF: DIR 01131

REF 100 USD ADMINISTRATIVE PAY AS CHIEF PILOT BUNIA,

SECRET

CFN:

SECRET

* REQUESTED CEASON (AUTH FOR WHITEHOUSE USD 100 BASES

14 APR 65
MICROFICHE
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER. M. D.
2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVD
CORAL GABLES. FLORIDA
9 April 1965

TELEPHONE
HIGHLAND 6 4474

Mr. Roberto Medell
P.O. 30x 831
Miami, Fla. 33148.

Dear Mr. Medell,

Re: WHITEHOUSE, Eduardo

Mr. Whitehouse was seen by me yesterday for a general physical examination. He holds a current F.A.A. Class II medical certificate issued by me 10 Nov. 1964.

Mr. Whitehouse related a-history-as follows:
He has been out of the country for five months and had bloody diarrhea off and on for 2 months. He has had sinus trouble with pain and nasal discharge and increased symptoms with pressure changes. His weight loss has been 20 pounds. His prostate became inflammed and tender.

Results of yesterdays physical exam are as follows:
Chest Xray was normal and consistant with one taken at this office 10 November 1954; Ξ.Ε.Ν. & T. all normal; Heart - normal size, rhythm, sounds; Abdomen -negative including hernia; Thyroid- normal; Blood Pressure 150/104; pulse rate at rest-74;

lectrocardiogram was within normal limits; urinaly-s sis - sug. - neg. alb. - neg. micro. - neg.; Sed Rate 3mm/hr.; Hbg. 14 gms. R3C 4,500,000 WBC 7,700 diff. - seg. 62 lymph. 31 stab. 4 mono. 3;

This patient is at present in an acute Anxiety State, has acute and chronic sinusitis, and seems to be re- covering from what is probably chronic amoebic dy sentary. I found the prostate to be normal. His sinuses were treated with drops and diathermy. I asked that he keep a temperature chart, Durabolin lcc was given i.m. and three other medicines were

![illegible text]

![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M.D.
2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVD.
CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA

TELEPHONE
HIGHLAND 6-6474

- cont'd - 2

WHITEHOUSE, Edwardo

given to be taken orally for treatment of his sinuses and his anxiety state.

Mr. Whitehouse is to return today for another sinus treatment, Xrays of the sinuses, and he is to bring in a specimen of feces. His treatment should continue approximately two or three times weekly until his sinuses are clear and medication relieves his anxiety state and nervousness.

Thank you for referring this airman.

Sincerely yours,
![signature of William S. Piper, M.D.]

William S. Piper, M.D..

WSP:bk


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

ORG F. DALY:kas
UNIT SUD/AB/OPS3
EXT. 4475
DATE 6 April 1965

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET

ROUTING

APR 65 18 10z

TO JMWAVE (FOR LORENTZ)
FROM DIRECTOR
CS SOD-6 INFO VR, File, DDP, WH/C-2, AF-6, D/ms-2, SIG GEN CCS-3

TO WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)
INFO.
CITE DIR.
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

ADVISE FOLL RE WHITEHOUSE:

(1) CONDIT AS DETERMINED BY PHYSICAL EXAM,
(2) AMOUNT HOSPITALIZATION REQUIRED IF ANY,
(3) RESULTS DEBRIEFING IF SIGNIFICANT.

99498

END OF MESSAGE

MS Mr. Corrigan (TELECON)

AF/5

WH/C/MO Lec Moughan (TEZEZON)

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WH
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

6 APR-65
BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.
C/SOD/AB

MICROFICHE
Copy N.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

**SECRET**

FROM LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION SOD 6

INFO VR. FILE, DDP, AF6, WH/C 8, CCS 3, OP2, OF 3

S E C R E T 041600Z 4 APR 65 IN 37757

PRIORITY WAVE INFO DIR CITE LEOP 8054

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

WHITEHOUSE OPTD LEOP 032145Z MIA VIA ROME LISBON SCHED DPT

LISBON PAA 255, 4 MAR.

SECRET

CFN

[Figure] Photo of handwriting that says 4 APR 65 MICROFICHE 201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 29

9 SECRET REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM LECICIDVILLE

ACTION SOD

INFO VR. FILE, AF6, DDP, WH/C 8, CC 3, D/MS 2; CIIJA

S E C R E T 021410Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 8028

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEM

REFS: A. DIR 97928 *

B. LEOP 7937 (IN 33942)

1. PER INSTRUCTIONS REF A TERMINATING WHITEHOUSE CONTRACT

RETURNING *BEST* AVAILABLE. REQUIRES MEDICAL ATTENTION NOT AVAIL-

ABLE LEOP. MALADY DUE CONDITIONS ADVANCED BASES COMPLICATED

LACK PROPER MEDICAL ATTENTION AND MALTREATMENT. ?

2. PARA 2 REF B REQUESTED AUTHORIZATION RETURN SUBJECTS,

TERMINATION CONTRACT NOT SPECIFIED PEREZ RETURN REQUESTED

LEOP CONVENIENCE, CAN CONTRIBUTE NOTHING REMAINING LEOP.

DESIRES COMPLETE SIX MONTH CONTRACT TERMS.

S E C R E T * Instructed Leop to terminate contract the day subj departs loop.

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# MESSAGE FORM

S/E/DAL/REAS
SCR/AU/OPS3
4475
DATE: 1 APR 65

TO: LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON: SOD 6

PRIORITY LEOP INFO: WAVE (FOR LORENTZ) CITE DAB 97928

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PORUHEN

REF: LEOP 7937 (IN 33942) *Whiteline* DIR-97928

1. CONCUR REQUESTS PARA 2 REF.

2. TERMINATE CONTRACT DAY SUBJ DEPARTS LEOP. SINCE TEIMINATION MUTUAL CONSENT, KUBARK PAYS RETURN TICKET COSTS.

END OF MESSAGE

AF/5 T. R. (phone)

AF/B&F L. Szymanski (phone)

WH/C/MO T. M. Mansini (phone)

SOD/SECUR

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

E. N. KORN-PATTERSON
AP/COPS

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

1 APR 65

BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.
C/SOD/AB

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

MICROPICHE

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

I, EDWARDS WHITE herein and hereby acknowledge that the contractor, during the term of the agreement consummated between us, effective NOV 13 1960 and terminated APRIL 3, 1965, has fulfilled all such commitments as outlined and authorized in subject agreement.

Therefore, in recognition of the good faith and good will of the contractor and the accord and agreement between myself and the contractor, with the termination of this agreement, I hereby release and forever discharge the Contracting Officer, all of his agents, employees and representatives, from any and all claims, demands, and liabilities in any form, or by any party, throughout the world, from' services performed by me for the Contracting Officer under said agreement with the Contracting Officer.

I hereby promise I will not reveal activities, sponsors, or any other information that came to my attention due to the performance of my duties during the period of the contract, in writing or any other form.

APRIL 19/65
Date

Employee

Witness

![APR 65 MICROFICHE 201-300614]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

FROM LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION

INFO

S E C R E T 30/09152

DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 7937

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

1. NOTIFICATION INTENT TERMINATE CONTRACTS EXPIRATION SIX MONTH OBLIGATION TOMAS AFONT, 30 APRIL; GASTON RODRIGUEZ, 22 APRIL; JOSE MENENDEZ PEREZ, 26 APRIL; TED WHITEHOUSE 13 MAY.

2. WHITEHOUSE INCAPACITATED OVER SIX WEEKS AMOEBIC INFECTION, HIGHLY NERVOUS, NO STAMINA, CONTINUES LOSE WEIGHT. REQUEST AUTHORIZE IMMEDIATE RETURN PBPRIME DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. PEREZ INCAPACITATED LAME BACK, THREE WEEKS REST PRESCRIBED, NO USEFUL PURPOSE SERVED RETAINING LEOP. REQUEST PERMISSION RETURN.

SECRET

CFN

![photo of document signiture and stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BY SECRET

FROM LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION 5006

INFO VR. FILE AFG, ADP, WH/C8, D/MS2, CCS3, CI/CA

S E C R E T 311505Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE LEOP 7977

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

REF: LEOP 7937(N 33142)

IUSTARK REPORTS WHITEHOUSE CONDITION GROWING PROGRESSIVELY

WORSE. PLSE ADVISE PARA 2 REF. REQUESTED WHITEHOUSE BE RETURNED
PBPRIME,

SECRET

CFN

![31 MAR 65, 201-300614]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

FROM LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION SOD 6

INFO VR, FILE, DOP WH/SA C, AF 4

SECRET 1736Z LEOP-6156

DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 6156

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUNEN

REPEDIR 74677

1. PER PARA ONE REF, CURRENT PERUMEN PROELENS PRIMARILY RESULT:

A. LACK OF INTESTINAL FORTUTUDE FOCUSED BY T-28 CRASH

B. LACK OF SUFFICIENT PERSONNEL ALLOW R AND R, AVAILABLE PILOTS

CONSTANTLY REQUIRED IN FIELD.

C. LACK S AND R FACILITIES. SINCE CRASH HAS BECOME MAJOR

CAUSE APPREHENSION AND DISSATISFACTION.

2. LEADERS ASSIGNED IN FIELD BELIEVED, BEST QUALIFIED OF THOSE

AVAILABLE:

A. 9-26 CASTAR CERICEDA

B. T-28 STAN - TRISTAN GARCIA

C. I-28 EUNIA - TED WHITEHOUSE

TRAVIESO FROM PERFORMANCE TO DATE CONSIDERED WELL QUALIFIED.

UNDER CLOSE SCRUTINY VIEW FUTURE RESPONSIBLE ASSIGNMENT

WHEN ACQUIRES MORE CONGO EXPERIENCE.

3. PER PARA TWO REF PILOTS.

A. T-28 QUALIFIED. TRISTAN GARCIA, TOM APOST, R. TRAVIESO,

L. ARDOIS, M. RAMOS, T. WHITEHOUSE, G. RODRIGUEZ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

CLASSIRED MESSAGE

SE. ET IN 53504 PAGE 2/2

E. T-28 TRAINING LEG. PERON, MENDEZ, ENINGUIER, TUNOS.

C. 3-46. VALLICIERDO, HMENDEZ, MORANTES.

D. 5-25. ALVEREZ, CERECEDA, VALDEZ, ROJAS, BERNAL, BLAZQUEZ..

SECRET

![poor quality image]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

ORG DAVID C. TAMOUREUX. ET
UNIT SOD/AB/OPS/3
EXT 7367
CAV: 16 NOVEMBER 1964

TO LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SOD 6 INFO: WAVE (FCR LORENTZ) DDP, WHISAB, AF 4, VR,
FILE

TO LEOP INFO: WAVE (FOR LORENTZ) CITE DIR
Б АДНВ

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PERUMEN

REF: DIR 614156

DIR-64448

RE/REF SUBJECT QUALIFIED T-6 NOT T-28.

END-OF-MESSAGE-

*ALL CUBAN PILOTS GIVEN SINGLE ENGINE! TRANSITION
AND EVALUATED FOR Flying ABILITY PRIOR DEPARTURE
PB PRIME.

SOD/AB/OPS/3
AF/5

![signature] AR/COPS

![signature] REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![signature] 16 NOV 64.
BERNARD J. FORAN, JR.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
MICROFICHE
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

34

30 SECRET

JMWAVE

SOD6

YR. FILE, DOP, WHISA 8, AF4, CCE 3, cilops, op3. OF 4 OS 2

SECDET 167257 WAVE-4905

LEOP יןFO DIR CITE WAVE 4905.

CHAPPIS WITHRUSH POPUMEN DTEARN

LOPENTZ TOY MAN SENDS (1~22197)

REF A. WAVE 4730 (PARA 2)

R. LEOP 472 (23790)

16 Nov 64 IN 24444

* See HB 70-4001 Re ACTION INDICATORS.

** Revalidate Ticket FOR SUBSect.

1. WHITEHOUSE AND MORANTES DEPARTING PAN AY FLIGHT 153 COV

17. ETA LEOP 1820 NOV 18. PLS MEET.

2. MOPANTES UNDER CONTRACT EFEECTIVE I OCT 64. THIS INFO FOR LEOP ONLY. PAID SALARY THROUGH END OF NOV. AUTHORIZED IS KILOS EXCESS BAGGAGE AND VILL CLAIM UPON ARRIVAL.. NO OTHER ADVANCES.. TRAVELING UNDER COLUMBIAN PASSPORT 8-91770 WITH PAPRIME REENTRY PERMIT.

3. MOPANTES BREIFED WOULD RECEIVE LOCAL CONTRACT UPON ARRIVAL. HAVE MAINTAINED STRICT NON OD YOKE APPROACH AND SUBJECT COOPERATIVE. HOVEVER REQUEST HESTON OR REP HAVE FORMALIZED CONTRACT INCLUDING

KAZARD DUTY CLAUSE PREPARED TO MATHTAIN ILLUSION AD ALSO PE-BRIEF

LOCAL SECURITY

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET

JMWAVE

SECRET 151611Z

IMMEDIATE LEOP INFO DIR BRUS CITE WAVE -4855

CHAPPIE/WITHRUSH/FORUMEN 15 Nov 23669

LORENTZ TOY MIAM SENDS:

1. EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE WAS PURPOSELY CANCELLED FROM SABENA FLIGHT. WAS ADVISED BY SABENA NEW YORK QUOTE TO CONTACT CONGO CONSULATE BRUS FOR ISSUANCE OF VISA ON MONDAY UNQUOTE. ADDITIONALLY SOMEONE OF AUTHORITY

INDEPENDENTLY RESCHEDULED SUBJECT FOR MONDAY DEPARTURE ALTHOUGH TICKED IN MIAMI CONFIRMED BRUS-LEOP SPACE ON SUNDAY.

2. HOLDING WHITEHOUSE NEW YORK PENDING FURTHER CLARIFICATION AND LEOP DIRECTION. CAN REVALIDATE TICKED VIA PAN AM IF ARRANGEMENTS CAN BE EFFECTED LEOP IN TIME FOR DEPARTURE ON. 17 NOV.

3. PLEASE ADVISE.

SECRET

![15 NOV 69]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

ORIG Dave Lamoureux
UNIT, SCD/AB/OPS-3
EXT 7067
DATE: 14/11/64

TO: LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM DIRECTOR

COND SUD-6

INFO DDP, WH/SA-8; AF-4, VR, File

TO LEOP
INFO WAVE (FOR LORENTZ) CITE DIR 64156

CHAPPIE ITHRUSH PBRUMEN

REF: LEOP 4609 (IN 20863)

DIR-64156

AFTER FULL CONSIDERATION OF POINTS RAISED IN REF REGARDING
WHITE HOUSE ACCEPTABILITY, HQS DISPATCHED HIM TO CONGO. AGREE THAT
CHIEF PILOT SHOULD BE CONSULTED, AND IN PAST WHEN THERE HAS BEEN
DEFINITE ANTIPATHY BY PBRUMENS HQS HAS RESPECTED FIELD VIEWS.
HQS HOWEVER DOING ALL POSSIBLE TO SUPPLY BEST QUALIFIED &K CANDIDATES,
AND THE FIELD MUST WORK WITH THOSE THAT ARE AVAILABLE. FYI ALL
CUBAN PILOTS ARE GIVEN SINGLE ENGINE TRANSITION AND EVALUATED FOR
FLYING ABILITY PRIOR DEPARTURE PBPRIME. TOLD THEY TO FLY AIRCRAFT
ASSIGNED BY SAO. WHITEHOUSE QUALIFIED T-Z?.

END OF MESSAGE

+ WHite house Not Desired BY CHIEF PILOT AT ThisTime.

Fyi - This cable was stilt by SOD/AA/ops 3

SOD/AB/OPS-3

AF/COPS
WH/SA/IOS

AF/5

Telecon
BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.
C/AB/SOD

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

IN CONSIDERATION of my employment on the terms hereinafter set
forth, I, Edurdo J. Whitehouse hereinafter called employee, hereby
agree to the following conditions of employment:

1. That the term "employer" as used in this agreement shall
   be the Government of the Republic of the Congo, or any designated
   Department or Agency of said Government, or any Company or Agency
   that the said Government may designate.

2. That the service to be rendered by the employee under
   this agreement is to be an aircraft pilot, with no specific aircraft
   assignment.

3. That the term of employment under this agreement shall be
   for a period of one-year from November 13, 1964. During the
   first six month term of this agreement, this agreement may be
   terminated by the employer at any time' by thirty - 30 days written
   notice in advance to the employee. During the last six month term
   of this agreement, this agreement may be terminated by either the
   employee or the employer by thirty-30- days written notice in
   advance to the other party.

4. That the employee shall be paid a basic, all inclusive,
   salary of Eight Hundred -$800.00- Dollars per month during the first
   six month term of this agreement. During the last six month term
   of this agreement, the employee' shall be paid a basic, all inclusive,
   salary of Nine Hundred -$900.00 Dollars per month. That the employee
   shall be paid an additional Tem -$10.00- Dollars per flying hour
   each month, for fall flying hours in excess of seventy flying hours
   por month.

5. That time employed accepts the responsibility of the
   payment of all applicable tatosion all income earned by hirt under
   the terms of this agreement.

6. That tng omployee shall be furnished round trip toubist
   class air transportation costs from Miami, Florida, to destination,
   and return, and all other expenses directly relating to the travel
   involved. In the event at the termination of this agreement, the
   employee accepts employment with an employor other than the
   Government of the Republic of the Congo, the return transportation
   cost shall not be paid said employee.

7. That the employee shall be provided with the following
   benefits during the torn of this agreement:

a. A monocary benefit of $10,000 in the event of his
death from any cause whatever during the term of
thi's agreement.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

of his death by accidental moans while aboard a tested aircraft while operating in a non war risk area and engaged in the performance of services under this agreemont PROVIDED death occurs within 90 days of the accident.
c. An additional monetary benefit of $30,000 in the event of his death by accidental means while engaged in the performance of services under this agreement aboard an aircraft being tested as to its airworthiness or when the aircraft is operating in a war risk area, PROVIDED death occurs within 90 days of the accident.
d. That in the event the employée reçoives an injury or disability while directly engaged in the performance of services under this agreement, he will be entitled to medical, surgical, hospitel, transportation and disability benefits in such amount as in the sole discretion of the employer is proper, PROVIDED said benefits shall not exceed a total of $20,000 for the same injury or disability.

8. That the employee agrees to undergo a medical examination within five calendar days after his return.

9. That the employee promise he will not reveal in writing or any other method, the activities, the sponsors, or any other facts that come to his attention by virtue of the performance of services under this agreement.

SIGNED AND SEALED BY me this 13th day of November, 1964.

____________________________ -Seal-

ACCEPTED at Leopoldville, the Republic of the Congo, this _______ day of ________, 1964.

____________________________ -Seal-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

27 SECRET

JIMUINVE

VR. FILE, DIP, WHISAS, AF4 WE6, OS2, OF 4

Ind. DO/H3

SECRET 130052Z

PRIORITY LEOP INFO PRIORITY DIR BRUS CITE WAVE 4730

CHAPPIE VITHRUSH SECUR DTEARN PBRUNEN

LORENIZ TOY MIAMI SENDS: 13 Nov 64 IN 22199

1. LUIS ARDOIS VITHRUSH PILOT SCHEDULED DEPART NEW YORK 12 NOV VIA SABENA 348; ARRIVE BRUS 13 NOV 0950. DEPART BRUS 13 NOV 2005 VIA SABENA 529; ARRIVE LEOP 14 NOV 0555. SUBJECT POSSESSES PEPRIME MULTIPLE ENTRY PERMIT. CONTRACT EFFECTIVE 11 NOV AND ADVANCED ONE MONTH SALARY. NO OTHER ADVANCES. RECEIVED T-6 CHECKOUT.

2. EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE WITHRUSH PILOT SCHEDULED DEPART NEW YORK 14 NOV VIA SABENA 548; ARRIVE BRUS 15 NOV 0950. DEPART BRUS 15 NOV 1105 VIA SABENA 319; ARRIVE LEOP 15 NOV 1905. SUBJ POSSESSES POPRIME MULTIPLE ENTRY PERMIT. CONTRACT EFFECTIVE 13 NOV AND ADVANCED ONE MONTH SALARY. NO OTHER ADVANCES. RAPIDLY QUALIFIED T-6 AND IRREVOCABLY UNDERSTANDS FUNCTION AS LINE PILOT AND ACFT TYPE ASSIGNMENT FROM CHIEF PILOT.

SECRET

ADOUBLE ACTION INDICATOR. See 90-400-1

![photo of secret stamp]

13 Nov 64

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

November 12, 1964

I certify I have given ir Eduardo Whitehouse Six Hours and Forty Five (6:45) minutes of dual instruction in North American AT-6D and I found him to be proficient and safe in this aircraft.

He is average in coordination and in my estimate his potential ability to fly tactics is limited.

I reccomed he should be given two more hours in this aircraft.

![signature of Rene Travieso]
Rene Travieso
FAA CFI # 1425396

![date and code: 12 Nov 64, 201-300614 MICROFICHE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M.D.
2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVD.
CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA
10 Nov. 1964

TELEPHONE
HIGHLAND 6-6474

Mr. Roberto Medell
P.O. Box 831
Miami International Airport
Miami, Florida 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO J.

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse was examined by me today for routine Federal Aviation Agency Class II physical which he successfully passed and was issued a medical certificate.

At your request a Chest Xray and hemoglobin was done. The Chest Xray was normal and his hemoglobin was 16.2 gms. or 104.8%

Mr. Whitehouse was given the following injections: Typhoid-para-typhoid, Typhus, Small-pox, Cholera and Dipth.-Tet.

Thank you for referring this airman.

Sincerely yours,

William S. Piper, M.D.

WSP:bk

![encircled date of 10 Nov 64]
![stamped number of 201-300614]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# PERSONAL EMERGENCY INFORMATION

Name of employee in full: Eduardo Whitehouse Insua

Person to be notified in case of emergency:

Name Brizeida Whitehouse
Relationship wife
Address 446 NE 39 St., Miami
Telephone FR4-2396

Designation of Beneficiary:

Name Brizeida Whitehouse
Relationship wife
Address 446 NE 39 St., Miami
Telephone FR4-2396

List all Insurance policies:

| Date of Policy | Company | Policy No. | Coverage | Beneficiary | Contain War Clause? |
| -------------- | ------- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------------- |
| none           |         |            |          |             | Yes No              |

Have you completed Last Will & Testament? yes
Date of Will: Nov. 10,1964 Location of original: R. Medell
Copy on file with:

Name and address of person holding Power of Attorney:

Date Nov. 10,1964

![signature of Employee]

MICROFIGHT

10 NOV 64

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Alien Affairs Staff/OS

SUBJECT: Request for Assistance with Cuban Nationals for Project WITHRUSH

1. The Special Operations Division and the African Division are interested in obtaining the services of the following individuals for employment in the Congo under Project WITHRUSH.

| Name and Bio Info                                                                                                  | Document Required |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------- |
| a. Pedro Enrique MONTERO Resident Alien A-11885661 DOB: 2 April 1931 POB: Buena Vista, Las Villas, Cuba 201-761359 | Re-entry Permit   |
| b. Ernesto PEDROSO Villanueva Refuges A-12490636 DOB: 31 March 1922 POB: Havana, Cuba 201-761343                   | I-512             |
| c. Eduardo Julius WHITEHOUSE Insua Resident Alien A-11241940 DOB: 14 March 1916 POB: Santiago, Cuba 201-300614     | Re-entry Permit   |

2. All have POA's.

3. It is requested that you make necessary arrangements with the I & N Service to facilitate issuance of the appropriate documentation at their Miami Office.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

1. Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Robert W. Gantino
Security Officer
Special Operations Division

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/AB/SOD
1 - SOD/SECUR
1 - 201-761389
1 - 201-761343
1 - 201-300614
1 - SOD/AB/OPS-3
1 - SOD/RI

SOD/AE/OPS/3D. Lamoureux:mt (4 November 1964)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# SECRET

MORANDUM POE: CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. George dall

SUBJECT : FBI Traves on 301-761343 end 201-300614

1. The following FBI Reports sere revieved by this office:

A. Anti - Fidel Castro Activities, dated 12/11/61

B. corde Julio Jaitehouse Incus, dated 4/5/60

2. No dorogatory information was found concerning either individual. This information was given verbally to dr. J. Dorainy in your office, en 26-Oct 64.

Paul 7. Goltho
Acting Chief
Special Operatione Divisies

Distribution:
Orig. & 4 - Addressee

1 - C/AB/SOD

1 - 201 - 761343

1 - 201 - 300614

1 - AB/OPS/3/SOD

1 - RI/SOD

AB/OPS/3/SOD:D.Lamoureux:jjf. (30 October 1964)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

DAVID C. LAMOUFLUX: ngw
SOD/AB/OPS/3
7367
27 October 1964
JMIAVE
DIRECTOR
S006
DOP, WHISAR, AFA, RI/RON, CI/OA, VR, file
LORENCZ
CEAFPIE VITERUSH PERUMEN
REF: WAVE 8337 (IN 82076)
SUBJ'S 42 AND 44 GRANTED POA'S 26 OCT 64.
*Bio data on personnel.*

END OF MESSAGE



KRUCK CESEV
LC/LE/SA


RELEASING OFFICER
SOD/AB/OPS/3
WE/SA/IOS
WE/GA/AOB

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

# MESSAGE FORM

B-Z-C-R-B-T

261-300414
ACI-746343

ROUTING

28 OCT 64 22 142

SIG CEN
ED10Z
DIR-60102


28 OCT 64
PAIL V. COTTER
AC/GEN/AB
0F71608
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

Capt. Eduardo J. Whitehouse
446 Ν.Ε. 39th Street
Miami, Florida

Dear Captain Whitehouse:

Thank you for your views and observations contained in your letter of 22 October 1964. Your interest is appreciated.

Contrary to the information on which you base your desire to discuss Cuban matters, be advised that this agency is not rendering help to Cuban organizations. Thus it is believed that a discussion of this topic would not be of benefit to either of us.

Thank you again for your interest.

Harold E. Padgett
Assistant to the Director

DDP/WH/SA/MOB/PROP/JBOtt:ems (28 October 1964)

Distribution:
Crig & 1 - Addressee
2 - ER
1 - WII/Registry
1 - WH/SA/ESEC
1 - OPS/3/AB/SOD
1 - WH/SA/MOB/PROP

MICROFICHE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET

# PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chie:.

OPS/3/AF/SCD - D. Lamouroux

NUMBER
201 - 300611

SUBJECT
WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo J.

REFERENCE: Your Nemorandum, Dated

2 October 1964 crm

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

For use as a pilot under Project WITHRUSH, as set forth in your request (form 772) dated 2 October 1964.

Please forward PRQ Part II.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory FRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

BY
APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

DATE

26 October 1964 MICROFICHE

201-300614

FORM 125 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
1-64

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

Miami, Fla. Oct. 20 1964

Mr. John McCone
Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. McCone:

I am one of the Cuban pilots survivor of the Bay of Pigs ill-fated invasion to Cuba. Flew several missions and talked with the four American pilots who died in the morning of April 15th 1961 while flying as volunteers for our cause.

Contrary to the general opinion that the CIA was to blame for that fiasco, I wish to express to you my admiration and gratitude for the excellent instruction received while training in Central America and for those who gave-up-their-lives for the cause of Democracy. A wrong and regrettable decision by the Administration turned a positive victory into a shameful defeat for the Cubans and the United States.

I understand that certain Cuban organizations are receiving direct help from your Agency. Regret to inform you that most of them are unworthy of such help and not so long ago, their leaders were Castro's followers.

Would like the opportunity of discussing this matter personally with you for the welfare of both our countries.

Please accept the testimony of my highest consideration.

Sincerely,

E. Whitehouse

Capt. Eduardo J. Whitehouse

146 N. E. 39th St
Miami F a.
Tel. FR-4-2396


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

E. J. Whitehouse
650 N. E. 79 St.
Miami, Fla.

![Post mark stamp with the text MIAMI, OCT 2, 1964, FLA.]

VIA AIR MAIL

Mr. John McCone
Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C.

POSTAL URGENT

![Stamp of a bird carrying a letter with the text 8c US AIR MAIL]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

FBI RESULTS

201 - 300614

Refer to data re EDUARDO JULIO WHITEHOUSE INSUA, sent 4/5/60, report dated 12/30/60?

Per Mr. Bludworth
21 October 1964
crm

DBF 45887 160-9-14(unincilegs)
need date

21 OCT 64
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# SECRET

FROM Panama City

ACTION Sdd c

INFO FILE, VR, WH7 AF4 SDP WH/SA 3, C7/OPS

SECRET 152100Z

RiGOITY DIR CITE PACY 4741

CHAPPIE WITH RUSH

REF DIR 56647

1. NO TICES SUBJ REF. CHECKED ALL LOCAL ODYOKE VERVICE PLUS

(HYABIDE) PANAMANIAN SECRET Police

2. NO INDEX.

SECRET

*RE EDWARD JULIUS Whitehouse INSUA.

201-300614

SECRET

15 OCT 64

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

ORIG. D. Lamoureux:jjf
UNIT: AB/OPS/3/SOD
EXT: 7367
DATE: 13 Oct 1964

MESSAGE FORM 25
S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: PANAMA CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONG: SOD-6 INFO WH-7, DDP/WH/SA-8, C/OR, UR, FILE

SIG CEN

INFO
CITE DIR
56647
TO: PACY

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH

1. REQUEST FIELD TRACES ON EDWARD JULIUS WHITEHOUSE INSUA, CUBAN,
   DPB: 14 MAR 1918, SANTIAGO, CUBA. EMPLOYED BY PANAVEN AIRLINES, PANAMA
   JAN 63 TO JUN 64.

2. LIAISON AUTHORIZED.

3. PLS ADVISE SOONEST.

END OF MESSAGE

AB/OPS/3/SOD
C/WH/2/P

![signature of desmond fitzgerald]
DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WH

COORDINATING OFFICERS
S-E-C-R-E-T

![signature of bernard j. finan]
BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.
C/AB/SOD
(14 Oct 64)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
MICROFICHE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

FROM: LE

ACTION: X

INFO: H/ DDP CI/APS VP FILE

SECRET 0911442
LEOP-
DIR CITE : LEOP 3775

CHAPPI: ITHRUSH PERUMEN

REF: DI 54684

SECRET

REQUESTED TRACES ON EDUARDO JHLINS
WHITE HOUSE INSUH, CHEAN.

SECRET

Copy Sent
CIA 130CT64

9 OCT 64
201-300614
MICROFICHE

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

NON-OFFICIAL COVER
CONCURRENCE

DATE

TO. BF COMPLETED BY CI/OA ONLY

C OR 201 NO.

SUBJECT'S NAME

DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP
U.S. RESIDENCE

OVERSEAS RESIDENCE

EMPLOYER
PROJECT

DIVISION OF STAFF
CASE OFFICER
ROOM NO.
EXTENSION

PROPOSED USE
C-4-22
From. C1/07
To. OPS/3/178/SOD

CCS/NC CASE OFFICER (Extension 5140)
TO BE COMPLETED BY CCS ONLY
CCS FILE NO.

Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use subject for the purpose
Indicated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon CCS to maintain an
accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity, you are specifically
requested to advise CCS/NC promptly by memorandum when subject has beer
activated. The pseudonym assigned subject should be provided CCS/NC at the
tize notification of activation is forwarded. If notification of activation
is not received in CCS/NC one year from above date it will be assumed proposed
use did not materialize.

If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject
or his employer is in CCS/NC files. After operational approval is received,
and prior to making arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are
specifically requested to confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency interests
possibly affected and the advisability of additional coordination.

If check mark appears here the proposed use of subject requires DDP
approval under CSI 240-6, para. 5. Please review CSI 240-6 and initiate
action as appropriate.

![circled 7 OCT 64]

FDM 2214
SECRET
MICROFICHE 0.42)
201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:
OPS/3/AB/SOD - D. Lamoureux

FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA
's/ Edward R.. Brown

DATE
7 Oct 1964 pre

C NO.
201-300614

SUBJECT:
WHITEHOUSE Insus, Eduardo J.

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOR, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO I
REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER

PRO 11
REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

FIELD TRACES.
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/OA

RI TRACES
REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA

OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA

RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
REVIES OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

GREEN LIST
**X** OTHERS (See Remarks)

NOTICE:
FIRST SECOND THIRD AND FINAL

REMARKS: Please furnish PANAMA trace results.

Sent Parema City 130ct by

FORM
6-60 889 OSE PREvrous talvice.

SECRET

![CROOF 1]
70CT 64
201-300614
(20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

MESSAGE FORM 22 R1

INDEX

NO INDEX 28 8-2-0-0-0-0-T 6/3

FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-300614

TO : LEAVENWORTH

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONE SOD 6 INFO AF 4, DDP,WH/SA 8,CI/OPS, UR, FILE

TO LEOP INFO CITE DIR 54684

CHAPPISTERUSI FERUMEN

1. REQUEST FIELD TRACES OF EDUARDO JULIUS WHITEHOUSE INSVA, CURACI,

DOB: 14 MAR 1918, SANTIAGO, CUBA. EMPLOYED BY AVIOVIAS PANAMA ALWAYS IN

CONGO FROM JULY 1951 TO SEPT 1961.

2. LIAISON AUTHORIZED.

3. PLS ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

SOD/AD/CPS/3 5 OCT 64

A/COPS MICROFICHE

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER C/DDD/DS

8-2-0-0-0-0-T 201-300614

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# SECRET

1. SUBJECT (JIPE NAME IN ROMAN LETTERS - SURNAME IN UPPER CASE)

WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo Julius

2. ALIASES, VAPIANT SPELLING, CTC NUMBERS

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

* NAME CHECK Nº 156220

2 OCT 1964

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

14 March 1918 Santiago, Cuba

4. CITIZENSHIP

Cuban

5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Public Relations Man

North Shore Villas - 6918 Indian Creek Dr.

Miami beach, Fla.

1 July 1964-present

6. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Pilot

70 ORIGINATING OFFICER

NAME David C. Lamoureux

OFFICE DESIGNATOR OPS/3/XB/SOD

ROOM, BUILDING 2 D 39

EXTENSION 7367

3. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

14. INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

7. PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

| ACTIVITY                                                      | LOCATION          | DATES             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| Pilot - Cubana Airlines                                       | Havana, Cuba      | Sept-443-Jan-1 59 |
| Unemployed                                                    | Miami, Fla.       | Jan 1 59-May 1959 |
| Training camps                                                |                   | 1960-1961         |
| Pilot-Aerovias Panama Airways - Leopoldville                  | Congo             | Jun 61-Sept 61    |
| Pilot - Interocean Airways - Leopoldville                     | Congo             | Sept 61-Sept. 61  |
| Insurance Salesman (own business)                             |                   | 1961-1963         |
| Operations Manager - Pilot - for Panaven Airlines             | Panama            | Jan 1 63-Jun 1 64 |
| Public Relations - North Shore Villas - 6918 Indian Creek Dr. | Miami Beach, Fla. | Jul 1 64-present  |

8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

Took part in invasion to Cuba in 1961 as pilot.

| DESCRIPTION | (HEIGHT) | (WEIGHT) | (EYES) | (HAIR) | (RACE) | (OTHER) |
| ----------- | -------- | -------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------- |
|             | 5'11"    | 160      | Blue   | Blond  | White  |         |

10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

Brizeida Whitehouse

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

Father: Edward L. Whitehouse

Mother: Maria C. Insua

12. INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY. GENERAL TERMS SUCH AS "CEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN A SEARCH THAT DOES NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS.)

![photo of instructions at the bottom of the form]

INSTRUCTIONS: INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRET

TO: David C. Lamcureux

FROM: FI/D 13 Oct 1964

DATE

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI'D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST. FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION. ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. XXXXX FI/D HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE. IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

"REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY AND SEND TO FI/D-THE-SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINGING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES WITH CONTENJING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: F1/D

FROM:

NAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

DATE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of the form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

TO:
*   CI'OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
*   CHIEF. INVESTIGATION AND SUPFOFT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
*   CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:
WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo Julius
(True name)
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA CA ALIASES

DATE
2 Oct 1964

FROM: David C. Lamoureux
OP5/3/A3/SOD
2 D 39

PROJECT
WI THHUSH

CI/OA FILE NO.
PI 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

|                                      |                                          |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| X PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL   | PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL         |
| OPERATIONAL APPROVAL                 | PROPRIETARY APPROVAL                     |
| PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL | COVERT NAME CHECK                        |
| COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL             | SPECIAL INQUIRY (50 field investigation) |
| CONTRACT TYPE A                      | CONTRACT TYPE B                          |

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Congo, Africa

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

Pilot

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                |     | YES | NO  |     |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | --- | :-: | :-: | --- |
| A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? |     |     |  X  |     |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?             |     |     |  X  |     |
| C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF J.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?        |     |     |  X  |     |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HI७१-                   |     |     |  X  |     |

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

None

F. SUGGEST "COVER, PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST?

|                                                 | YES | X NO |
| ----------------------------------------------- | :-: | :--: |
| IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY. |     |      |

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

|                                                |                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| X PRO I. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED | X PRO 11 WILL BE FOR ARDED         |
| PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED    | X GREEN. LIST ATTACHED. NO: 156219 |

6. RI TRACES

|           |              |                          |
| --------- | ------------ | ------------------------ |
| NO RECORD | BILL FORWARD | X NON-DEROGATORY      WH |
|           |              | DEROGATORY ATTACHED      |

7. DIVISION TRACES

|           |           |                     |
| --------- | --------- | ------------------- |
| NO RECORD | BILL FGRA | X NON-DEROGATORY    |
|           |           | DEROGATORY ATTACHED |

8. FIELD TRACES

|                             |     |                                  |
| --------------------------- | --- | -------------------------------- |
| NO RECORD                   |     |                                  |
| X NO DEROGATORY INFO. HAVE  |     |                                  |
| LIST SOURCES CHECKED        |     | XI BILL FORBARD Congo            |
|                             |     | DEROGATORY ATTACHED              |
|                             |     | SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED |
| NOT INITIATED (Explanation) |     |                                  |

MICROFICHE

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER

David C. Lamoureux

FORM
2-63 772 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

EXTENSION
7367

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIER
Rezaar! J. Fra Jr. (2 c-t 643

SECRET

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

# PERSONAL INFORMATION

REF.

42

![photo of applicant]

NAME: *Anderson, Eduardo, Julio*

PHONE: UN-55070 NUMBER: *F4-0264*

SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: 261-66-2326

MALE

MARITAL STATUS:

* SINGLE
* MARRIED
* ENGAGED
* WIDOWED
* DIVORCED
* SEPARATED

PRESENT ADDRESS: 6018 Indian Creek Dr. Miami Beach Fla

PERMANENT ADDRESS: 446 E. 39th St. Miami, Fla.

DATE OF BIRTH: 2-11-17
PLACE OF BIRTH: Santiago, Cuba

HEIGHT: 5.11 COLOR OR HAIR: Blond

WEIGHT: 160 COLOR OF EYES: Blue

COMPLEXION: Light

PASSPORT PARTICULARS:

ISSUING AUTHORITY: U.S. Dept. Justice

RE-ENTRY PERMIT PLACE OF ISSUE: Miami, Fla.

DATE OF ISSUE: Dec. 31 1963

KIND OF PASSPORT:

PASSPORT NO. A-11-241-040

VALIDITY PERIOD: 1 year

CITIZEN OF U.S.A: YES

NATURALIZED:

HAS YOUR PASSPORT EVER BEEN CANCELLED? YES

EDUCATION

| NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL | DATES ATTENDED | GRADUATE DEGREES | MAJOR SUBJECTS |
| --------------------------- | -------------- | ---------------- | -------------- |
| Gulf Coast Military Academy | 1933-37        | yes              |                |
| Gulfport, Miss.             |                |                  |                |
| Havana, Business College    | 1933-39        | yes              |                |

SUBJECTS OF SPECIAL STUDY OR RESEARCH WORK: Aviation

VOCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS LICENSE, CERTIFICATE, ETC.

WHAT FOREIGN LANGUAGES DO YOU SPEAK FLUENTLY? Spanish, Italian, French

U.S. MILITARY SERVICE (BRANCH): Army Airforce

TYPE OF DISCHARGE: Honorable

READ: yes WRITE: yes

FROM: 1943 TO: 1945

RANK: Capt.

PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN NATIONAL GUARD OR RESERVES:

ACTIVITIES OTHER THAN RELIGIOUS: Civic, Athletic, Fraternal, Etc.

PREVIOUS ADDRESSES DURING PAST TEN YEARS

| FROM | TO   | STREET                   | CITY/STATE        | COUNTRY |
| ---- | ---- | ------------------------ | ----------------- | ------- |
| 1959 | 1960 | 116 SE 1st.              | Miami, Fla.       | USA     |
| 1960 | 1961 | 1714 Fillmore lane Hotel | Miami Beach, Fla. | USA     |
| 1961 | 1962 | 1324 S.W. 17th ST.       | Miami, Fla.       | USA     |
| 1962 | 1963 | 2051 S.W. 19th ST.       |                   |         |

SPOUSE (INCLUDE FIANCE AND PRIOR MARRIAGES) - CHILDREN

| NAME    | DATE OF BIRTH         | PRESENT ADDRESS | OCCUPATION |
| ------- | --------------------- | --------------- | ---------- |
| 4-1-22  | 6011 Indian Creek Dr. | House wife      |            |
| 4-12-43 | Same                  | Student         |            |
| 8-5-53  | Same                  |                 |            |

(CONTINUED ON OTHER SIDE)

23 SEP 64

201-304-614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# EMPLOYMENT

EMPLOYMENT - In the spaces provided below describe every position which you have held since you first began to work, including any active or military service. Start with present position and worn back to the first position which you held. Account for any periods of unemployment. USE CONTINUATION SHEET IF NECESSARY.

## A. DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (MONTH, YEAR)

FROM:

7-1-64

TO PRESENT TIME

EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POSITION

Public Relations

SALARY OR EARNINGS

STARTING $ 450.-

FINAL $

PER YR.

PER YR.

NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYMENT

Ferth Shore Villes 6913 Indian Creek Dr. Miomi Beach Fla.

NAME AND TITLE OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

T. Henitca

DUTIES PERFORMED BY YOU

Promote business

REASON FOR CHANGING EMPLOYMENT

still employed

## B. DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (MONTH, YEAR)

FROM: 1-1-63

TO: 8-1-64

EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POSITION

Operations Mgr.

SALARY OR EARNINGS

STARTING $ 700.-

FINAL $ 300

PER YR.

PER YR.

NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYMENT

Hanaven Airlines, Panaha.

NAME AND TITLE OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

Carlos ldcreso

DUTIES PERFORMED BY YOU

Ops. Xer. and Pilot.

REASON FOR CHANGING EMPLOYMENT

had to move to Panama.

## C. DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (MONTH, YEAR)

FROM: 9-14-53

TO: 1-1-59

EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POSITION

Airline Pilot

SALARY OR EARNINGS

STARTING $

FINAL $

PER YR.

PER YR.

NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYMENT

Cuvena Airlines

NAME AND TITLE OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

Jose Milazow

DUTIES PERFORMED BY YOU

Airline Pilot

REASON FOR CHANGING EMPLOYMENT

Political

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR FORCED TO RESIGN FOR MISCONDUCT OR UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE FROM ANY POSITION?
IF ANSWER IS "YES" GIVE FULL DETAILS:

NO ☐ YES ☐

HAVE YOU NOW OR EVER HAD ANY PHYSICAL OR MENTAL DEFECTS OR DISABILITIES WHATSOEVER!
GIVE FULL DETAILS:

NO ☐ YES ☐

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED OR DETAINED BY ANY POLICE OR MILITARY AUTHORITY? IF SO NAME THE ARRESTING AUTHORITY
GIVE TIME, PLACE AND REASON FOR SUCH ARREST OR DETENTION, AND THE DISPOSITION OR COURT ACTION.

NO ☐ YES ☐

JOB APPLIED FOR:

Pilot

MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE SALARY $

PER YR.

REFERENCES. LIST FIVE PERSONS, NOT RELATED TO YOU BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE, WHO ARE PARTICULARLY QUALIFIED TO SUPPLY
DEFINITE INFORMATION REGARDING YOUR CHARACTER AND ABILITY. DO NOT GIVE NAMES OF SUPERVISORS LISTED ABOVE.

| NAME                                              | ADDRESS                          | OCCUPATION |
| ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ---------- |
| Col. Fed G. Hook, In.                             | U.S. National Cwmqim, Washinton, | "          |
| "Howard Slaten Gesso Airftrce Jose, New Hampshire | "                                | "          |
| Timothy Donohue Cris Airforce Base, Mass.         |                                  | "          |
|                                                   |                                  |            |
|                                                   |                                  |            |

FATHER'S NAME

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH (CITY, COUNTRY)

PRESENT ADDRESS

How Smirn ecch. Fla.

PRESENT OCCUPATION

NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

PRESENT NATIONALITY

MOTHER'S FULL NAME

Kria. Insua

DATE OF BIRTH

Son Pablo B. R.

PLACE OF BIRTH (CITY, COUNTRY)

PRESENT ADDRESS

PRESENT OCCUPATION

NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

PRESENT NATIONALITY

IN CASE OF EMERGENCY NOTIFY

Inola lndoro 47 Antilla Coral es MT- 6705

NAME

ADDRESS

PHONE NO.

IF THE ASOVE SPACE IS NOT SUFFICIENT USE CONTINUATION SHEET.

I authorize investigation of all statements contained in this application. I understand that misrepresentation or omission of facts called for is cause for dismissal.

5-23-1964

DATE

Signature


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

From June 1961 to Sept. 1961 contracted by AA. Airlines to fly in the crc, Africa.

Took part in the ill-fated invasion to uba in 1961 as pilot.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# ORSC EL CHECK LIST

NAME: WHITEHOUSE

JOB: Pilot

201-N ABER: 3006 (ONHAND)

C-NUM ER:-

POA RQUES(ED: 2 Oct 1964

GREEN LIST REQUESTS: 2 Oct 1964

RI TRE CES REQUESTED: 30 Sept 1964

RI TR CES RETURNED: NPIT ND 1Oct64

DIVIS ON TRACES ROOSTED: 2Oct 64

DIVISION TRACES ND-WH

FIELD TRACES SENT: CONGO INITIATed 2Oct64

FIELD TRACES RETURN: WAVE N.D. Panama - N. D. pen Hcy 4THI

ΜΕΜΟ: Ο CI/OA RE RI TRACES: 772

MEMO CIOA RE DIV TRACES: 772 WH

!

MEMO CI/OA RE FIELD TRACES: 772 WAVE; will forward Connd Fowe defi3Oct64

POA GE ANT20: Ck pov Jack Danny 26Oct64

CONTR CT SIGNED:

No Gerog. FBI + ITN PLL WAVE 2532

MICROFICHE

201-300614


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# SUPPLEMENTARY PERSONAL INFORMATION
## FLIGHT CREW

Name and Rank: Eduardo J. Whitehouse (Capt.)

I. General Flying Experience:
A. Military Flying: Instructed by U. S. personnel for the invasion to uva in 1951.

B. Airline: Cubana Airlines
Panavon Airlines

C. Far East:

| Equipment Types and Flying Times | PILOT (IN HOURS) | CO-PILOT (IN HOURS) | OTHER CREW TITLE | (IN HOURS) |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------- | ---------------- | ---------- |
| A. C-45                          | 50.-             |                     |                  |            |
| B. C-47                          | 4500.-           |                     |                  |            |
| C. C-46/C-54                     | 1500.-           | 50.-                |                  |            |
| D. DC-6                          |                  |                     |                  |            |
| E. DC-7                          |                  |                     |                  |            |
| F. Jet Transport (By Type)       |                  |                     |                  |            |
| G. Amphibian (By Type)           |                  |                     |                  |            |
| H. Flying Boat (By Type)         |                  |                     |                  |            |
| I. Helicopter (By Type)          |                  |                     |                  |            |
| J. SK-5H orST. 10-HH-3           | 175.-            | 175.-               |                  |            |
| K. Loon N. 10                    |                  |                     |                  |            |
| L.                               |                  |                     |                  |            |
| M.                               |                  |                     |                  |            |

III. TOTAL FLYING TIME 1 | 6300.-

IV. Total Instrument Time
Hood 245.-
Actual 275.-

V. Total Night Time 275.-

VI. Total Flying Time in Past Six Months

VII. Type Equipment in Past Six Months

VIII. Aviation Licenses & Ratings

| Type | Number | Ratings |
| ---- | ------ | ------- |
| A.   |        |         |
| B.   |        |         |
| C.   |        |         |

IX. Selection of an applicant may well be influenced by the type and amount of ground and flight training received. To assist in evaluating your overall qualifications it is important that you endeavor to submit documentary evidence, in a thorough and detailed manner, of all training received during the past three year period. (This information may be submitted in the form of notarized statements, photostats, etc.)

X. Are you willing to be based at any station at the discretion of the Company?
Yes No
I understand that misrepresentation or omission of facts requested is cause for dismissal.

DATE SIGNATURE

201-300614
