14-00000
104-10177-10135 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM 2593
1-66

(-13)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM
3-64 2593

17-13-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MATERIAL PAPERS PY
HOUSE SELECT СУРИН OT ASSASIMALS STAFF MEIRI ES

FILE TITLE/NUIREP/VOLUIT; X-RITOPLACED DIVERTS Ti
PHILLUS, DHLD ATLEE XEI FILE.
(THIS DOCUMENTS, TYLEE PANECT
CUTLUE FILDERS)

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1952 72 1975

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIΛΙ. |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------- |
| 3/2/78        | 3/2/78        | DAN Hardway              | Dan Hardway                      |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OP REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MATERIAL RETAINED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: X-RETROACTIVELY DECLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS TO
PHILLIPS, DAVID ATLEE 201 FILE.
(THE DOCUMENTS, THREE PROJECT
OUTLINE FOLDERS)

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1952 TO 1975

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 3/2/78        | 3/2/78        | DAN Hardway              | Dan Hardway                     |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Bivne 6

Air Pouch

KAPOK
SECURITY FOR?
TCS-A-1801

Chief, RND
doting-
Chief of Station, Santiago

ZACACTUS, Chile.
Fulzinator-1's Te-Ferma Contract

Reference: TCS-7-1665

29 December 1961

1. Attached herewith please find a pro forma contract which has been prepared for Fulminater-l's signature. He has stated that he is in agreement with its provisions. If this contract is satisfactory please retura it for his signature at such tino as his clearance is obtained.

2. FULMINATER-1 has shom himself to be very enthusiastic regarding the proposed employment with this Organisation and is anxious to start the tasks to bo assigned to hin as scen es his clearance is obtained and the necessary instructions are fcrwarded to this Station.

3. To carry out the covert prepa, anda wapect of FULMINATEE-l's duties he has highly recormended the use of Victor POOLSTE Crtoga. The latior is a Chilean, about 56 years of age, whe is foreman of FOULIT-l's printing shop. De also lives on the premises and would be the caly person who would have to know if the presses are used at nikt. He is not a member of the printers' labor union and his past actions havo indicated to FANATI-1 that he is 100% anti-Communist. He has bom employed many years by Luckenzie and Co., a British firm which shared the print shop facilities with FCMIRATUA-1'a presses. However, FULMA-1's equipment is entirely separate from Lackenzie's and if the covert work is done at night as is anticipated it is FULMINATER-l's opinion that POBLETE could run off the work without any possible interference from other individuals. another of PODI 13's advantages is the fact that he is able to perform all the printing oporations which will be nevesuary to put out sormal propagania and similar material and this would eliminate the need to use other persons in the preparation of the prepajanda material.

4. PCBLETS has been closely connected with inglish and Anglo-Chilean officials of Lackenzie & Co. for many years but it is believed logical to presume that if he is paid generously for his work in this connsetion, with the understanding that the work is of a completely confidential nature and of a long-term basis, that he will agree to complete secrecy regarding the work. Amount of payment to POSLATE will have to be determined when there is scme indication as to the mount of work to be done, & local investigation of this person has been initiated and the results will be forwarded as soons possible. No derogatory information on this person appears in this Station's files.

A, In line with the authorization received in TCS-5-1465, FULTHATER-l will be

КАРОК


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SEODST
SECURITY INFORMATION
-2-
TCS-A-1801
paid from other operational funds the peso equivalent of his salary boginning
1 January 1952. It was conátierod necessary to begin his payments as of that
date in order to insure his continued stay in Chile. This Station would
appreciate clarification of JREDICT-Chile to which, according to TC..--1465,
this expense could be charged for a limited time.

6.5, FULMINATER-I's weekly newspaper is 61% owned by him, and as indicated in
attached contract, he has agreed to keep the paper for at least two years.
The other owner, who has taken no activo interest whatsoever in the operation,
management or policies of the paper, apparently plans to sell his share.
The prospective buyer is not known but in any event PULMINATER-1 will retain
the controlling interest.

76, FULNINATER-l is willing to spend the necessary time in Washington for
training and will be ready to depart immediately when so advised. However, his
wife is expecting a baby around 30 December 1951 according to her doctor's
calculations, and FULMINATER-1 would prefer to remain in Santiago for at least
a few days after the child is born. He is certain that the birth will take
place within a week's time and it is hoped that his presence in Washington will
not be required prior to 15 January 1952. As a cover story for his trip,
FULMINATER-1 has advised that an option nas been bought on one of his playe
and that a trip to New York to discuss the play with the prospective producer
is completely logical. Further, he has an estate in Texas which is in. litigation
and which could logically require his presence there. PULMINALER-1 asked that
ho bo allowed to spend a day or two in Texas either on his trip up or back to
settle this estate and it is recommended that he be allowed to do so in order to
provide his cover story with more basis in fact.

8.7, FULMINACER-1 has been told that he must pay United States income tax on his
calary received from this Crganization. He is at a loss, however, to know how
this added income can be satisfactorily and securely explained to the Department
of Internal Revenue. In accordance with the contents of Field Regulations 50-15,
this matter is being brought to Headquarters attention with a request for
instructions as to how this matter is to be handled.

efc

Acting Chief of Station
Kenneth J. Tondler

KAPOK STOURITY OF


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

- Attachment: TCS-A-1801

## Pro Forma Contract With Fulminator-1

Wo hereby contract you to perform services as required under the following conditions:

1) You agree to remain in Chile for at least two years from the date of this contract and you also agree not to sell during this period your share of the South Pacific Mail of which, it is understood, you are a part owner and maintain the controlling interest. (51%)

2) It is agreed by you that this Organization will not become involved in any way, financially or otherwise, in the South Pacific Mail.

3) You will carry out the duties assigned to you by the appropriate official to the best of your ability devoting as much time to them as is reasonably possible, taking into consideration your obligation to manage the South Pacific Mail as the overt reason for your residence in Chile.

4) You will be paid the sum of U. S. $5,940 per annum for your services to this Organization, and you agree, in accordance with subsequent instructions, to pay the United States Income tax which will be due on this amount. Your salary will be paid monthly.

5) You agree to make yourself available to travel to Washington for about a one month's stay to undergo training as required. Travel and living expenses during this trip will be paid by this Organization. It is not known when this trip will take place but it is believed that it will be in the near future.

6) You will be granted paid vacations during the period of your employment in Chile in accordance with applicable Chilean laws.

7) Should local travel be required by this Organization, your travel and living expenses while away from Santiago will be made available.

8) Reasonable entertainment expenses, after prior consultation with this office, will be reimbursed.

9) It is agreed by you that you will not expect sick leave benefits to assure to you under the terms of this contract; and it is understood that your employment by this Organization will not entitle you to retirement and other similar benefits of United States Government employees.

10) It is understood by you that the terms of this contract are


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Attachment: TC3-A-1801

-3-

provisional upon the satisfactory clearance of your name by the appropriate officials.

11) The effective date of this contract is the date on which your satisfactory clearance is received and the term shall be indefinite.

12) The termination of this contract may be effected at any time upon written notice, but without advance notice, by this Organisation, such termination to be effective upon receipt of the notice. The termination of this contract will not release you from any provisions of security oaths which you may be required to take.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Project Outline Clearance Sheet

Project Title PB GROVEL Amendment No. Project No.

Developed by: B.A. Mullik Organization: WHO Date: 29/1/52
Case Officer

Reviewed by: N.M. Smyser Date: 1 Feb 52
Foreign Branch Chief Division Chief

Concurrences: Jill S. Lockwall Date: 28 Jan 1952

Len B. Reed Date: 31 Jan '52
W/CPO

S. Howland Date: 9 Feb 52

Date

Date

Date

Approved subject to conditions below: 12 Feb 52
AD/AD/DC Date

Conditions of approval:

OPC Form No. 1103 (Rev)
23 April 1951

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# PROJECT OUTLINE

Project FEGROVEL Amendment No.

Type Operational

I. AUTHORIZATION

A. Establishment "in the immediate future" of mechanism capable of conducting psychological and political Warfare aimed at the accomplishment of HD missions (a) and (b) in Chile; as set out in Section II (paragraph 2.b.) of Annex B to the WIID/OPC Strategic Plan dated 1 November 1951. This task is assigned priority one in Phase I (1 Jan - 30 June 52) in the aforementioned Plan.

II. REFERENCES

A. Budgetary data for this Project. (ANNEX A)

B. Field dispatch (TCS-A-1801) outlining the terms of this Project. (ANNEX B)

C. Headquarters cable authorizing recruitment of FULMINATOR-1 for this Project as a contract agent. (ANNEX C)

III. PROPOSAL

A. Statement

It is proposed to undertake the development in Chile of a group or committee composed of Chilean nationals which will engage overtly and actively in anti-Communist work and will function as a WHD mechanism for the accomplishment of WED missions (a) and (b) in Chile, as set forth in Paragraph I above.

As the first step in implementing the development of that committee, it is proposed to engage the services of a high-calibre American national in Chile as a contract agent at an annual salary of $6,000.00 to

1. Spot, recruit, and manage a qualified indigenous Chilean who will act as organizer. of the aforementioned committee, and

2. Act as cut-out and principal agent for, in the operations of the committee.

At such time as development of the committee warrants, the necessary steps will be taken to place the committee in the proper relationship with the DTHABEAS foundation for purposes of cover and support.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

B. Backround

The American national in question is a former WHD/O५० agent (FULMINATOR-1) of proven ability, courage and discretion.

FULMINATOR-1's present occupation in Santiago, Chile, provides him with excellent contacts and cover for carrying out the tasks proposed for him above.

He is part owner of, and holds the controlling interest (51%) in a Santiago printing and publishing establishment that publishes an English-language newspaper, The South Pacific Mail, which FULMINATOR-1 edits. His establishment is well equipped to handle a great variety of printing jobs.

C. Current Status

On 23 January 1952, WHD Headquarters authorized its Santiago Field Station to hire FULMINATOR-1 as a contract agent for a period of at least two years (See ANNEXES B and D). In his agent capacity, FULMINATOR-1 will undertake to develop the committee referred to above in Paragraph A of this Outlinė.

At such time as that development warrants, an Amendment to this Project containing a statement of all new requirements, will be submitted to competent authority for approval.

IV. RECOMMENDATION

That there be allotted to this Project funds in the amount of $4,700.00 to provide salary for FULMINATOR-1 for the remainder of Fiscal Year, to cover the cost of bringing him to Washington for a period of covert training, provide his per diem allowance while here, and transport him back to Santiago, Chile following that training period.

V. OPERATIONAL DETAILS

A. Area of Operation

Chile

B. Cperational Control

1. WED Headquarters will exercise final control of this Project, and act as its support unit.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

2. The field Station, Santiago, Chile, will exercise field control of Project operations in accordance with instructions from Feadquarters.

C. Personnel Required

One cleared, witting agent to act as Project principal agent and cut-out (FULMINATOR-1).

D. Communications Plan

Available WHD pouch and cable facilities between Headquarters and the Santiago Field Station.

E. Support Plan

1. Training

The Project's principal agent will receive approximately one month of covert training in Washington, D. C., and return to Chile. All expenses in connection with this training are to be borne by WHD.

F. Reports Procedure

Progress reports will be submitted to HD Headquarters by the Santiago Field Station in accordance with Headquarters directives.

G. Cover and Security

1. Cover

FULMINATOR-l will remain in Chile in his present business position. As a cover story for his trip to Washington for covert training, FULMINATOR-1 has advised that an option has been bought on one of his plays and that a trip to New York to discuss the play with the prospective producer is completely logical.

2. Security

On 10 January 1952, HD received an CPC Operational Clearance on FULMINATOR-1.

1..4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Communications between FULMINATOR-1 and the Santiago
Field Station wil at all times be carried on by means
of a secure cut-out.

Since FULME:ATOR-1's cover is his overt business situation
in which he is already established, and since that situation
provides him with printing and publishing facilities, it is
believed the good operational security can be maintained
with a minimum of effort in this Project.

VI. BUDGET DATA

See ANNEX A. (OPC Form No. 404).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

0010P/Commo

NO.

DATE

4 February 1952

|     | TO  | ROOM NO. | DATE RECD | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                     |
| --- | --- | -------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| 1.  | WHD |          |           |            |                    | three extra copies attached. |
| 2.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 3.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 4.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 5.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 6.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 7.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 8.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 9.  |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 10. |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 11. |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 12. |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 13. |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 14. |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |
| 15. |     |          |           |            |                    |                              |

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

4 February 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: WHD

SUBJECT: OPC Project PBGROVEL

1.  Subject project has been reviewed by this office and no communications facilities beyond those already existing will be required in support of the project.

2.  It is intended that this memorandum shall constitute the Communications Annex for PBGROVEL.

![signature of James L. Fisher]

JAMES L. FISHER
OD/OP/Cosmo

OD/OP/JLF/mhj

Distribution:
Addressee - orig & 3
OD/OP/Carpenter - 1
OD/OP/Fisher - 2
SD/RE - 2

SECURITY INFORMATION
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

Dranch I, HD records

1.  May 1952

ME.ORANDUM FOR THE RECOD

Meeting with Agent, Paul D. LANGEVIK on 20 April 1952

1.  The sense of the following text was obtained during an afternoon meeting with Agent LANGEVI!!. Participating in the tall: vere Nessrs. Sryser and Tatton and Agent LANGEVIN. Four rajor topics were discussed and will be presented here in the order in which they were developed.

2.  Printing Plant Problem: I. LANGEVIN indicated that in two and a half to three months cortain financial obliga- tions would come due. These consisted entirely in making an $8,000 payment arising from the purchase of equipment for his printing establishment. This equipment, which cost about $10,000 when purchased late in 1951, consists of an Italian- made press, linotyre machine, Speed Graphic cameras, tyre, etc. The market value of this equipment (ortly new and partly used) is estimated to be at least $10,000. The sum of $8,000 represents the total indebtedness of LANGEVIN's plant and is owed to a Mr. MACKENZIE of Casa Mackonsic. M. LANGEVIN ray meet this payment by either (1.) securing a loan from a Fort Worth, Texas, bank using his share in family oil interests as collateral, (2) taking on a Chilean partner, (3) getting the money from a Chilean bank (which would involve an 18% interest rate) or (4) getting the money elsewhere. Common agreement was expressed on the undesirability of taking on a Chilean partner since this would be a security hazard in any future Pl work, and would also eliminate the possibility of using the plant as cover for another agent. 15. LANGEVII, asked about his previous statement about leaving Chile after two years, roplied that now there was no definite plan or desire in that direction. Ee indicated he would have sone idea about the possibility of assistance from a Texas bark within a few weeks. T. LANGEVIN also suggested that he would gladly use his earnings for the next two years from the agency ($6,000 per year) if the Agency could put up the 8,000 in a lump sum. The printing firm is now making a profit above the salary which LANGEVIN takes out.

3.  Priering on the Comittee: Mr. SIYSER discussed the overall tasks which LANGEVII: is expected to perform. Much emphasis was placed on the need for security in explaining this type of IW activity, particularly if and when DTHABELS is

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

-2-

brought in. Mr. LANGEVIN indicated that his cover for con-
tacting the Embassy was good, and further indicated that no
unauthorized person in Chile knew of his U. S. Government
activities.

4. Information on FUHLER: When questioned about the
   discretion of FUWELER, LANGEVII indicated complete confidence,
   stating that she was very efficient and would be useful in
   assisting him in Pl work. IANGEVIN was thoroughly briefed on
   the fact that FUELER must never now of DIADELS or its con-
   nection with the committee.

5. Words and Deeds: Mr. LANGEVIN stated that the format,
   paper, type and photoengraving of this pamphlet was far above
   Chilean standards. He said that Chile had only one printing
   house capable of producing such work, and no artists of the
   caliber exhibited in the pamphlet. He suggested a Spanish or
   French attribution on poorer paper. The reproduction of posi-
   tives is also not done in his plant, but must be contracted for
   at a Santiago photoengraver's.

6. Bank Details: Mr. LANGEVIN has opened an account at
   the Chemical Bank and Trust, 74th Strcet and Madison Avenue,
   New York City. All futuro monthly payments will be made to
   that bank, beginning with the payment for April.

Leo E. Patton

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

## SECRL
COPY OF CAFLE

TO: SUTLAGO

FROM: OPERATICIS

ROUTINE

16 MAY 52

OUT 77204

WASH 41154

TO: SAGOG

CITE: WASHG

1. INFORM LANGEVIN HEADQUARTERS ATTEMPTING OBTAIN LOAN.

2. REQUEST LANGEVIN HOTIFY HEADQUARTERS BEFORE COMPLETING ANY LOAN AFPANGERENTS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

Chief Western Hemisphere

|     | TO              | ROOM NO | DATE          | RECD | FWO'O | OFFICER'S INITIALS | NO. | DATE | COMMENTS |
| --- | --------------- | ------- | ------------- | ---- | ----- | ------------------ | --- | ---- | -------- |
| 1.  | Mr. Butt        |         | 28 May 28     |      |       | QW                 |     |      |          |
| 2.  |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 3.  | Mr. Graham      |         | 29 May        |      |       | My                 |     |      |          |
| 4.  |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 5.  | Mr. Washington  |         |               |      |       | RW                 |     |      |          |
| 6.  |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 7.  |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 8.  | Colonel King    |         | 29 May 52     |      |       | Jak                |     |      |          |
| 9.  |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 10. | Lt. Deane cc/co |         | 16 June 1952  |      |       | 20.30 "X"          |     |      |          |
| 11. |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 12. | CM              |         | 18 Jun 25 /52 |      |       | All                |     |      |          |
| 13. |                 |         |               |      |       | ✓                  |     |      |          |
| 14. |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |
| 15. |                 |         |               |      |       |                    |     |      |          |

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET

F-887

![U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# MEMORANDUM FOR: OD/CO

ATTENTION: Mr. William Rowland

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

28 May 1952

1. Forwarded herewith are the original and two copies of subject amendment plus an extra copy of OPC Form Loba.

2. It is respectfully requested that approval of subject amendment be expedited as the Project Financial Data, Form 40ha, indicates that payment of eight thousand ($8,000.00) dollars to PAUL D. LANGEVIN must be made on or about 20 June 1952.

3. Subparagraph six of the Proposal indicates that as a prerequisite to issuance of a loan to LANGEVIN the latter will be required to submit a complete nameplate inventory of all machinery and equipment involved in the loan transaction, its physical existence in his custody, his title to the property, and an aproximate evaluation of its worth (as determined by WHD station personnel). WHD will be prepared to do this shortly after Amendment No. 1 is approved and the necessary runds are available for payment.

4. Subparagraph five of the Proposal indicates that details of the loan contract and selection of the appropriate legal instrument to secure a lien on the machinery and equipment will be arrived at through joint agreement of WHD, CCC and the Legal Division. These financial details will be arranged subsequent to approval of the amendment in question and will comprise the financial plan governing the expenditure of the funds requested.

![signature of A. C. KING]

JHK
WHD/JCK/SWW/VLG/HB/JC

Distribution

Orig: OD/CO/

cc: Special Contracting Officer (Mr. J.L. Bischoff)

CM (Mr. Ernest W. Pittman)

Chief, Branch I

Project File PBCROVEL WHD/F&O

Chrono WHD/P&O


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

25 Juno 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR POLICY COORDINATION

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Proprietary, WHD

1. CM concurs in making a loan of U. S. $8,000 with interest at 4 percent per annum to contract agent Paul D. Langevin (pseudo). This loan is to be fully secured by a chattel mortgage, or whatever other legal instrument is recognized by the appropriate Chilean Court as establishing a first lien on the machinery and equipment, valued at approximately U. S. $10,000, against which the loan is being made. Principal and interest are to be amortized in monthly installments of U.S. $500, which represents the total salary accruing each month to the agent. The term of the loan will be for the time required to liquidate principal and interest in full.

2. The contract agent will submit a complete name-plate inventory of all machinery and equipment involved as collateral for the loan along with his proof of title to and its physical existence in his possession.

![signature of preston L. Sutphen]
PRESTON L. SUTPHEN
Chief, Commercial Division

CM/RDOD/rs

Distribution:
orig & 2 - Addressee
1 - DDA
1 - WHD
3 - CM
2 - RI/FI

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "10" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: WHD/Br.I

NO.

DATE 7 July 1952

| TO       | ROOM NO | DATE          | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS |
| -------- | ------- | ------------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| 1.       |         | REC'D: 7 July |                    |          |
| LEPatton |         | FWD'D: 7      | Lep                |          |
| 2.       |         | 7 July        | Jan                |          |
| JANoel   |         | 7             |                    |          |
| 3.       |         | JUL8          |                    |          |
| DCWH/PC  |         | 1952          |                    |          |
| 4.       |         |               |                    |          |
| OD/CO    |         |               |                    |          |
| 5.       |         |               |                    |          |
| ADPC     |         |               |                    |          |
| 6.       |         |               |                    |          |
| 7.       |         |               |                    |          |
| 8.       |         |               |                    |          |
| 9.       |         |               |                    |          |
| 10.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 11.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 12.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 13.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 14.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 15.      |         |               |                    |          |

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVEΚΝΜΕΝΤ

TO: ADPC
VIA: OD/CO
FROM: CH
DATE: 7 July 1952
SUBJECT: Information on Paul D. LANGEVIN principal agent of Project PBGROVEL

1.  Paul D. LANGEVIN is the principal agent of subject project, approved 12 February 1952. Project PBGROVEL contemplates the establishment in Santiago of an indigenous anti-communist committee which, when developed, will be placed under DIHABEAS.

2.  Subject agent was granted an OSO clearance 3 October 1950, and proved his usefulness as a cut-out and in a DYCLAVIER printing operation. Subject was granted an operational clearance for, DYCLAVIER work 14 January 1952, and received covert training in New York City in April. Since his return to Santiago, subject has engaged in spotting and recruiting an indigenous principal agent who will in turn organize the anti-communist committee.

3.  Subject is the Texas-born 30 year old, owner and publisher of the English-language weekly "South Pacific Nail" of Santiago. Subject has also had acting and writing experience since his completion of wartime service in the U. S. Air Force. Subject has been in Chile since November 1949 and at present has a two year contract as agent for this agency, signed 25 January 1952. Subject has indicated on several occasions a continuing interest in obtaining a permanent position with this agency.

4.  Due to the Subject's travel to New York for training, several officers of WHD have had an opportunity to observe and evaluate subject. Opinion on subject has been consistently favorable and he has impressed all as a person of high intelligence and personal integrity. Subject has had a varied occupational background, excellent education, and exhibits exceptional poise and a good appearance.

![signature of J.C. King]

J. C. KING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designators should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered becomescond with the number in the "TO". Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be rätumes ro Reg stay.

FROM:

DD/P

| TO                      | ROOM NO | DATE RECD | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS |
| ----------------------- | ------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| Project folder-PAGROVEL |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 2.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 3.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 4.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 5.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 6.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 7.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 8.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 9.                      |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 10.                     |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 11.                     |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 12.                     |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 13.                     |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 14.                     |         |           |            |                    |          |
| 15.                     |         |           |            |                    |          |

NO. ER-3-0947

DATE

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

ER. 3-0947

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

SUBJECT: Project PEGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. Amendment No. 1 to Project PEGROVEL proposes the loan of the sum of $3,000 at 4% interest per annum to a contract agent in Santiago, Chile, in order that this agent may complete payment on machinery and equipment recently installed on the premises of the printing establishment of which said agent is sole proprietor.

2. The propriety of CIA lending funds for this purpose has been reviewed by OGC/NRI who is of the opinion that in principle there should be no objection. The question of operational use by Ope has been raised with the WH Division and it has been stated that this equipment, consisting of the press, linotype machine, Speed Graphic cameras, etc., can be used for Opo propaganda production purposes.

3. The question of control of the contract agent was discussed and it has been determined that the General Counsel's Office is being requested to establish legal means whereby the lien or mortgage on this equipment will be held in the name of a cut-out. In the event of any untoward action on the part of the contract agent or disagreement between the agent and CIA, action can be taken to assume control of the machinery.

4. As is indicated in the attached memorandum from the Chief, WH Division, the contract agent is considered to be an individual of high intelligence and personal integrity. For this and the above listed reasons, it is recommended that Amendment No. 1 to PEGROVEL be approved in the amount of $3,000.

FRANKLIN A. LINDSAY
Acting Assistant Director for
Policy Coordination

OFC/CD/CO/AFR/mhj

Distribution:
FRC - Orig. & 5
DD/P - 2
Project Folder - 1
CD/CO - 1
UPC/BI/FI - 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

OPC.

NO. ER-3-0947

DATE

| TO      | ROOM NO | DATE          | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS |
| ------- | ------- | ------------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| 1. DD/P |         | REC'D 16 July |                    |          |
| 2.      |         | FWD'D 21 July |                    |          |
| 3.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 4.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 5.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 6.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 7.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 8.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 9.      |         |               |                    |          |
| 10.     |         |               |                    |          |
| 11.     |         |               |                    |          |
| 12.     |         |               |                    |          |
| 13.     |         |               |                    |          |
| 14.     |         |               |                    |          |
| 15.     |         |               |                    |          |

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

ER-3-0947

JUL 15 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. Amendment No. 1 to Project PBGROVEL proposes the loan of the sum of $8,000 at 4% interest per annum to a contract agent in Santiago, Chile, in order that this agent may complete payment on machinery and equipment recently installed on the premises of the printing establishment of which said agent is sole proprietor.

2. The propriety of CIA lending funds for this purpose has been reviewed by Opo/SRI who is of the opinion that in principle there should be no objection. The question of operational use by Opo has been raised with the WH Division and it has been stated that this oquipment, consisting of the press, linotype machine, Speed Graphic cameras, etc., can be used for Opc propaganda production purposes.

3. The question of control of the contract agent was discussed and it has been determined that the General Counsel's Office is being requested to establish legal means whereby the liên or mortgage on this equipment will be held in the name of a cutout. In the event of any untoward action on the part of the contract agent or disagreement between the agent and CIA, action can be taken to assumo control of the machinery.

4. As is indicated in the attached memorandum from the Chief, WH Division, the contract agent is considered to be an individual of high intelligence and personal integrity. For this and the abovo listed reasons, it is recommended that Amendment No. 1 to PBGROVEL be approved in the amount of $8,000.

![signature]

FRANKLIN A. LINDSAY
Acting Assistant Director for
Policy Coordination

APPROVED:

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

ROUTING and RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbers to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

|     |       |         |       |       |     |
| --- | ----- | ------- | ----- | ----- | --- |
|     | TO    | ROOM NO | DATE  | DATE  |     |
|     |       |         | REC'D | FWD'D |     |
| 1.  | oo/eo |         |       |       | EA  |
| 2.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 3.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 4.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 5.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 6.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 7.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 8.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 9.  |       |         |       |       |     |
| 10. |       |         |       |       |     |
| 11. |       |         |       |       |     |
| 12. |       |         |       |       |     |
| 13. |       |         |       |       |     |
| 14. |       |         |       |       |     |
| 15. |       |         |       |       |     |

NO. ER 3-1119

DATE 187~952

COMMENTS

FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

ER 3419

SECRET
Security Information

13 July 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, Project Review Committee

SUBJECT : Project POGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. This will advise you that DD/P approved the above today in the amount of $3,000.

2. This sum is actually a loan to a principal agent at 4% interest per annum, repayment to be effectuated in $500 monthly installments out of the contract agent's salary with the agency, which amounts to $6,000 per annum.

3. The agent is located in Santiago, Chile. Proper arrangements in connection with the above will be made by CCC and the General Counsel's office. This matter was cleared with the latter prior to approval.

HANS V. TOFTE
Acting Chief of Plans
Office of DD/P

INT/tch
13 July 1952
Dist:
Original & 5: Secretary, PRC
1 cc: Project Folder, OD/CO
1 cc: Misc. Projects Folder, DD/P
1 cc: ER
1 cc: DD/P Chrono
2 cc: OPC/RI

SECRET
Security Information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

S-E-C-R-E-T

SECURITY INFORMATION

DD/P Project Approval Sheet

Project Cryptonym PRGROVEL Amendment No. 1

Sub-Project Cryptonym

Originating Division WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

Approved -- Disapproved

![signature] 18 July 52

Comments:

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

S-E-C-R-E-T

SECURITY INFORMATION

Project Outline Clearance Sheet

Project Title: BOGEOVE Amendment No. 1 Project No.

Developed by: Lee E. Patton WHO/OPC Bo.1 23 May 1952
Case: Officer Organization Date

Reviewed by: W. W. Luyck 5/27/52 J.C. King 29 May 1952
Foreign Branch Chief Date Division Chief Date

Concurrences: W.W. Luyck DC/WH/PC 29 May 1952
Date
CM-Preston L. Temple 6/15/52
Date


Date


Date


Date

Approved subject to conditions below:

CPO 14 July 52

Conditions of approval:




OPC Form No. 1103 (Rev.)
23 April 1951

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

S-E-C-R-E-T
Security information

Project Title _________ Amendment No. _________ Project No. _________

Following Line and Staff Officers of the Western Hemisphere Division Have Signed and Concurr With This Project.

Concurred: Psychological Warfare Officer WHD _________ Date _________

Political Warfare Officer WHD _________ Date _________

Economic Warfare Officer WHD _________ Date _________

Sabotage Warfare Officer WHD _________ Date _________

Countersabotage Officer WHD _________ Date _________

Paramilitary Officer WHD _________ Date _________

Plans Officer P & O WHD _________ Date _________

Budget Officer P & O WHD Wm. E. Byrne 28 MAY 1952
Date

Project Coordinator WHD 28 May 1952
Date

Chief P & O WHD H. Jackson 28 May 1952
Date

Conditions of Approval _________

_________

_________

S-E-C-R-E-T
Security Information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET
Project FEGCVEL Amendment No. _
Type _Financial

I. AUTHORIZATION

Same as Project FEGCVEL.

II. REFERENCES

A. Same as Project FEGCVEL.

B. Budgetary data for this amendment (Annex A).

C. Memo on meeting with Agent Paul D. LANGEVIN (Annex B).

D. Cable to Santiago Station on the loan to LANGEVIN (Annex C).

III. PROPOSAL

A. Statement

1. It is proposed that the Agency lend the sum of $3,000 in U. S. currency, at 4% per annum, to contract agent, Paul D. LANGEVIN, in Santiago, Chile, in order that this agent may meet contractual obligations without endangering his present cover.

2. The proceeds of this loan would be used to complete payment on machinery and equipment recently installed in the leased premises of the printing establishment of which LANGEVIN is now sole proprietor.

3. The principal and interest of the loan would be amortized from the entire proceeds of LANGEVIN's salary from the agency of $6,000 per year, at the rate of $500 per month.

4. The loan would be guaranteed by a chattel mortgage, or whatever legal instrument is customarily employed in Chile to establish a lien on the assets against which the loan would be made.

5. Details of the loan contract and selection of an appropriate legal instrument to secure a lien on the machinery and equipment would be arrived at through joint agreement of ID, CCC and the Legal Division. The existing agent

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

contract with LANGEVIN vould also be reviewed jointly by
rejrepentatives of these divisions with a view to incor-
porating ary rodification which might be necessary as a
result of the agent's entering into a loan areemont with
the agency.

6. As a prerequisite to the issuance of a loan, LANGEVIN
   would be required to subrit a complete name-plate inven-
   tory of all machinery and equipment involved in the loan
   transaction and its physical existence in his custody,
   his title to the property, and an approximate evaulation
   of its worth would bo determined through WWD station per-
   sonnel.

## B. Background

Contract agent, Paul D. LANGEVIK, is the sole owner and editor
of the English-language paper, *South Pacific Mail*, which is
published weekly in Santiago, Chile. The printing of this
publication was formerly done by an outside firm. Desiring to
handle both his own printing recuirements and to engage in job
printing, LANGEVII obtained equipment from an individual who
expected to be compensated through a partnership in the busi-
ness. However, serious illness has prevented the prospective
partner from entering the business, and hos forced LANGEVII! to
meet the financial obligation alone. The repayment of this
obligation will recufre LANGEVIN either (1) to accept a Chilean
partner in his business, or (2) to obtain a loan. The require-
ments of security and the need for flexibility of operation
militate against bringing in a partner. Moreover, a loan ob-
tained locally through ordinary commercial channels, 1.e.
banks, would entail exorbitant interest rates. In addition,
since a bank loan would almost certainly be of short-term
duration; there would exist the constant threat of loss of the
cover business through a possible refusal to renew the loan.

LANGEVIN has contacted a bank: in Texas in an attempt to secure
a loan, offering as security his chare of a family interest in
oil-producing lands. It appears doubtful that the Texas bank:
will grant the loan.

## C. Current Status

LANCEVI!! was adviced, while in the United States for training,
that Feadquarters would investigate the possibilities of an

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

-3-

Agency loan (See Annex A). After consultation with the Commercial and Legal Divisions, ID advised LANGEVIN by cable, after his return to Chile, not to complete any loan arrangements without notifying Headquarters (See Annex B). It was decided that a loan from the Agency, under the terms outlined in the proposal, presented the best solution for the agency from the standpoint of security, and that such a loan would give the Agency even greater control over the agent than now exists.

IV. RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the sum of $8,000 be made available as a loan, at 4% interest, to contract agent, Paul D. LANGEVIN, the loan to be secured by a lien on machinery and equipment valued at approximately $10,000; interest and principal to be amortized at the rate of $500 per month, the full amount of agent's salary.

V. OPERATIONAL DETAILS

Same as Project PDGARCVEL.

VI. BUDGET DATA

See Annex A. (CFC FORM No. 404a)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# SECRET

PROJECT FINANCIAL DATA
(This data may not exceed SECRET classification)

Project Cryptonym P3GX
Fiscal Period Covered 1 June 195 2 through 30 June 195 2

L. E. Patton
Case Officer
HD/CPC Branch 1
Responsible Staff or Division

## A. PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

(Indicate number and type of personnel required and estimated total compensation for salary, allowances, travel, and related employee benefits.)

| Type               | Number | Estimated Total Compensation |
| ------------------ | ------ | ---------------------------- |
| Staff Employees    |        |                              |
| Staff Agents       |        |                              |
| Career Agents      |        |                              |
| Agents             |        |                              |
| Consultants        |        |                              |
| Detailed Personnel |        |                              |
| Miscellaneous      |        |                              |
| **TOTAL**          |        | **$**                        |
|                    |        | None                         |


## B. SUPPLIES, MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT, AND SPECIAL SERVICES

(Indicate the type and estimated cost of materials and special services required to support the project. Attach a list of special equipment requirements, if available.)

None

Total Estimated Cost $

## C. OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

(Indicate volume and nature of such expenses, such as (1) maintenance of two operational houses abroad, (2) hire of approximately 10 foreign nationals for procurement of information, (3) spot purchase of information, etc.)

None

Total Estimated Cost $

OPC Form No. 404a
9 November 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

D. SUBSIDY OP PROPRIETARY PAYMENTS
(If funds are to be turned over to individuals or groups in large lump sums to be expended by the individuals or groups at their discretion to accomplish an agreed upon objective, explain the type of financial accounts, factual verification, or statements, if any, other than a reccipt for the lump sum, which will be obtained from such individual or group.)
The sum of $8,000.00 is to be paid to contract agent Paul D. LUNGEVIN in the form of a loan at 4% interest, both interest and principal to be amortized at the rate of $500.00 per month. The loan will be evidenced by a loan contract signed by LANGEVIN and the agency.

Total Estimated Cost $ 8,000.00

E. FUNDING REQUIREMENTS
(Show approximate dates funds will be required, if known, and indicate whether funds will be required in U. S. dollars, specific types of foreign currency, checks, bonds, gold, or some special type of nego- tiable instrument. Indicate any special security requirements or special methods of transmission anticipated in connection with funding the activity.)

The above amount (US$8,000.00) shall be paid in a lump sum to the borrower, preferably by check deposited in the Chemical Bank and Trust, 74th Street and Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y., on or about 20 June 1952.

F. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
(Within security limitations, list any other facts or circumstances which will enable Special Support Staff to lend adequate logistic support to this project. Indicate specifically the "Rush" or "Time" factors involved.)

Full amount must be paid on or about 20 June 1952

G. Funds required for use in Field $ 8,000.00
Funds required for use by Hq. $
Total (this amount is also total of A, B, C, and D above) $ 8,000.00

OPC Form No. 404a
9 November 1950

- 2 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

PROJECT FINANCIAL DATA
(This data may not exceed SECRET classification)

Project Cryptonym: __________ Fiscal Period Covered 1 June 1952 through 30 June 1952

__________ Fatton __________ N*/RC *French 1
Case Officer Responsible Staff or Division

## A. PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

(Indicate number and type of personnel required and estimated total compensation for salary, allowances, travel, and related employee benefits.)

| Type               | Number | Estimated Total Compensation |
| ------------------ | ------ | ---------------------------- |
| Staff Employees    |        |                              |
| Staff Agents       |        |                              |
| Career Agents      |        |                              |
| Agents             |        |                              |
| Consultants        |        |                              |
| Detailed Personnel |        |                              |
| Miscellaneous      |        |                              |
| **TOTAL**          |        | $ ______________             |

## B. SUPPLIES, MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT, AND SPECIAL SERVICES

(Indicate the type and estimated cost of materials and special services required to support the project. Attach a list of special equipment requirements, if available.)

Total Estimated Cost $ ______________

## C. OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

(Indicate volume and nature of such expenses, such as (1) maintenance of two operational houses abroad, (2) hire of approximately 10 foreign nationals for procurement of information, (3) spot purchase of information, etc.)

Total Estimated Cost $ ______________

OPC Form No. 404a
9 November 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

D. SUBSIDY OP PROPRIETARY PAYMENTS
(If funds are to be turned over to individuals er groups in large lump sums to be expended by the individuals or groups at their discretion to accomplish an agreed upon objective, explain the type of financial accounts, factual verification, or statements, if any, other than a receipt for the lump sum, which will be obtained from such individual or group.)

Total Estimated Cost $ 6,000.00

E. FUNDING REQUIREMENTS
(Show approximate dates funds will be required, if known, and indicate whether funds will be required in U. S. dollars, specific types of foreign currency, checks, bonds, gold, or some special type of nego-tiable instrument. Indicate any special security requirements or special methods of transmission anticipated in connection with funding the activity.)

F. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
(Within security limitations, list any other facts or circumstances which will enable Special Support Staff to lend adequate logistic support to this project. Indicate specifically the "Rush" or "Time" factors involved.)

Full amount must be paid on or about 30 Juan 1952

G. Funds required for use in Field $ 6,000.00
Funds required for use by Hq. $
Total (this amount is also total of A, B, C, and D above) $ 6,000.00

OPC Form No. 404a
9 November 1950

- 2 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

Santiago
March 3, 1953

Dear Sirs:

During a recent visit to the United States, I had the opportunity of speaking with a gentleman who gave me the name of your organization as one which, in certain cases, was able to cooperate with international anti-totalitarian groups.

In Santiago, where none exists, there is a small band of people who are enthusiastically interested in launching such a group, with particular interest in the revival of "Pep Chile", a weekly newsmagazine once printed here. This publication was devoted to the lower classes and editorially fought against Communism. A large group of local businessmen contributed to its success with their backing, and our effort, a group which could be called upon again.

The director of the publication, a distinguished journalist, is available to carry on this work again, but unfortunately does not have the necessary financial backing. Would it be too much to hope that your organization might help in this matter? A sum of about $10,000 dollars a year would be required to insure success. This amount roughly represents the yearly loss of the previous publication, plus a certain consideration for increased costs. All other basic expenses would, of course, be met from advertising and circulation revenues.

I myself, and other interested friends are preparing a detailed report on the expenses mentioned above, indicating how such money would be used, and with what expected results. We would be happy to send this report to you if you indicate any possible support of our idea.

Please forgive the eagerness of this request, but as we are not sure to what extent your cooperation is possible, we await further word from you.

Sincerely yours,

(FUNEBRIAL)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

April 9, 1963

Dear Sir:

This is to acknowledge with thanks receipt of your letter of March 5, 1963. The executive board of our foundation has read and considered your proposal and we find your contemplated activities most interesting. Your idea of reviving an anti-totalitarian news-magazine seems a highly desirable activity with which to initiate your group's activities. Our foundation, as you have been told, is more than willing to assist accredited groups such as yours in developing and carrying forward a genuine anti-totalitarian program.

While we are most interested in seeing your group successfully launched the Foundation's support of its activities, would of course be contingent upon receipt of as complete details as possible on the personnel, resources, and aims of your group and the board's approval of the group's objectives and program.

In order that the board may arrive at definite conclusions concerning any assistance or if it might be able to provide, we request that you furnish the following information:

a. Submit a report, as you suggest, setting forth your plans for revival of the magazine and include information on your resources and the amount of assistance which you would wish the Foundation to supply.

b. Inform us as to whether your group is, or could be, in a position to formulate a program of additional anti-Communist activities. We would like all possible information including an estimate of probable costs.

c. Since your group is very evidently composed of influential and high-minded people such as yourself, we believe that it might have the capability of eventually developing into an organization which could well become the focal point for anti-Communist activities throughout Chile and might be the vehicle through which aid could be channelled to other worthy civic, social, business or religious organizations which also may be aware of the Communist menace and who may wish to combat it actively. Your views concerning even such a possibility would be welcomed by us.

d. In order to further the work of your group, will it be possible to obtain financial assistance locally from business, social and civic organizations? Such support is obtained in many instances, in other countries, by reputable organizations engaged in efforts similar to those which you have embarked upon.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

In conclusion, may we reemphasize our great interest in your suggested publication. We shall be most happy to receive an early answer which will permit prompt consideration of possible support for this endeavor.

Very truly yours,
(DIHARWAS)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

April 29, 1953
Rec'd May 26, 1953

DTHABEAS

Dear Mr.

Thank you for your letter of April 9th, 1953. I am sure you will understand that the delay in answering has been due to my efforts to gather the information needed for a detailed response to your questions. I have had several conversations with the editor of the publication we wish to revive, as well as other interested parties, and y answers are based on the results of these conversations.

a. "Submit a report....setting forth........". The plans are to revive the weekly publication "or Chile", of 20 pages, tabloid size. It would be printed on Thursday afternoon and be dispatched by air t. the North (nitrate and copper areas) and by rail to the South (coal stain and textile factories). Thus the review would be sold as workers lost their factories for the week-end, insuring Saturday and Sunday, reason for the family. Our objective is to reach employees and workers prior to force a mass dismissal. Many industrial concerns would purchase the publication for resale to employees at a lower cost. An organization for surin the previous publication period the Carbonifera Lota (Lots Coal Mina, Con ay) began with a subscription of 400 copies. This number, according to inter es- of the readers, was quickly increased to 1,800. The newspaper, as in the past, would be backed up the organization "Propaganda for Chile". The sum needed to re-establish this group would be about two to two and a half million pesos. Of that amount one million pesos would be raised locally, from the old society and by new sources available. That would mean ou would be called upon to support our group. Lots extent of one our one and a half million pesos for a minimum period of one year.

b. "Inform (possi 1.it/o)....additional anti-Communist activities ......etc....". The launching of our weekly newspaper would not to the extent of our group's activities. I quote verbatim from the ideals expressed in the locally incorporated organization in 1947:

"The object of the society will be the exploitation of newspapers, radio and other means of propaganda destined principally at the defense of our regime of constitutional democracy and our sovereignty against the Marxist forces, Soviet communism, and ay other form of totalitarianism. In its newspaper, publications and other means of propaganda the society will stir the patriotism of the citizens and show to the public conscience the tragic reality of the Soviet regime; it will fight fo. clean government and the betterment of the working classes ca the basis of the correct application of sesid laws and conditions. The society will


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

utilise for its ends all legal methods of the expression of ideas and principally it will editer reviews, books, pamphlets, handbills and poster and will make all kinds of publications, radio broadcasts and projection of films. The society will also give aid to all groups or organisations with similar aims and will utilise all the means of thought necessary by the Board of Directors in order to carry out its ideals.

c. "…(the channeling)….of aid to other worthy civic, social, business or religious organizations…." Naturally, our group would be delighted to aid others (see above).

d. "…will it be possible to obtain financial assistance locally!" At the present time it is impossible to say definitely how much financial assistance could be obtained here. But it is interesting to note that the sum first absorbed for the incorporation of the old association was $600,000 pesos. This sum was also doubled from spontaneous donations, etc., once the group had become a reality.

I hope the above will be sufficient for the present. We are presently waiting a detailed estimate of printing costs for "Por Chile" and studying the problems involved—a serious shortage of paper, for instance. But I honestly feel that this organisation and its official organ "Por Chile", plus a small number of younger people who are interested in fighting Communism, would be the firm beginning, of a great work in this country, which might some day spread throughout Latin America.

Sincerely and cordially,

(FUNERRIAL)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

June 17, 1953.

:FUREBRIGA)

Dear 3irs:

This is to acknowledge with thanks receipt of yur informative latter of April 29, 1953 which arrived by steener mail. We recret that an earlier reply has not boon possible, but the time elapsed has been well apant in iis your latest report and your proposal of March 5, 1953, the serious consideration which they deserve. We might slepest that your future corres- pondence be sent to us by airmail.

The executive beard of the Foundation has studied vour report of April 29, 1053 and appreciated your comprehensive response to our request for further in- formation. Tra objectives and contemplated activities פניר ניר certainly seem to be highly consistent with zeroral aime of the l'oundation and as such would cerit-carotid consideration of financial asets tance sa you have indicates would be necessary.

As above Indicated, your proposal of warch 5, ond resort of April, ave not with five sympathetio Iriacest sit in tre rota rontation; of particular interest are the id:co1 of alen local support in the past, as evidenced to the 30,000 יןeco initial incor- poration supscription, pl is an incat aqual erant in subsequent dometion for to ("P.1.C.") organization. However, we would like to know to whe: extent the 17 figures, which you cited in your letter of April , might serve as a realistio basis for a 1953 Astinate of support w...ch might be obtained locally.

If, in the light of information at hand and any additional Information which you say furnish on the personal resouros, and needs of your grous your proposal should prove to constitnte the feasible ond desireble activity which it now appears to co, w will endeavor to lend our sueport to you in every way possible.

The Foundation wi'l not be in a position to frame a definitive ansver to your proposal until we are in receipt of, and have reviewed, your promised estimate of printing costs for "P.C.).

Very truly yours,

(DTHARRAS)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

July 10, 1953

(DTHA BEAS)

Dear Mr;

Thank you very much for your letter of June 16th, 1953, explaining that you are still considering the possibility of aid for our group.

First, I want to apologize for the error which resulted in my last letter being sent sea-mail. Of course all future correspondence will be via air-mail.

Attached find one of the 15,000 pamphlets which were recently distributed to Chile's University students in Santiago, Valparaiso and Concepcion. We think it is a graphic example of the kind of work our group can do. Funds for the project were raised by "For Chile".

We are hoping to send you more complete details at the earliest possible moment.

(depend ?)

In spite of the local economic system we feel that we can/can ask support locally for any such project of the group, and will re-affirm possible capitalization in our next letter.

There is no question that there is a great deal of work to be done here. The pamphlet, for instance, originated from the students involved and was produced with our aid.

Hoping that we may hear from you soon again. Regards, and thanks for your interest.

Very truly yours,

(FUNEBRIAL)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

COPY

Air
HCSW-345

Chief of Mission, Santiago

Chief, WHD

KUGOWN Matters

FURIOSO-C

REFERENCES: (a) HCSA-434; (b) SaG0-848; (c) DIR 16626; (d) DIR 17648

1.  This is to confirm and amplify reference (d), that Headquarters has prepared the initial letter from DTHABEAS to Martin J. COKENIAS. This letter, which requests COKENIAS to act as the "honorary" DTHABEAS representative in Chile, is being sent air-mail to the COKENIAS residence in Santiago.

2.  As an attachment to this dispatch we are forwarding the draft of a suggested reply to be sent by COKENIAS to DTHABEAS, via air mail. COKENIAS need not use our suggested letter verbatim, as long as he does incorporate in his reply the ideas contained in our draft.

3.  Upon receipt of the letter of acceptance from COKENIAS, DTHABEAS will send COKENIAS a letter of introduction to FUNERRIAL. DTHABEAS will also, at the same time, alert FUNESRIAL to the anticipated contact, asking him to put COKENIAS in touch with FUNERRIAL-1.

4.  For security reasons wer are not enclosing copies of the initial DTHABEAS letter to COKENIAS. It is suggested that station make its own file copies of the letters sent directly to COKENIAS.

5.  In his contacts with FUNESRIAL and FUNERRIAL-1, COKENIAS will naturally not disclose a greater knowledge of the DTHABEAS-FUNDERIAL relationship to date than would logically be available to him through his own correspondence with DTHABEAS. In order to facilitate understanding between COKENIAS and the FURIOSO-C group, however, the next letter from DTHAFFAS to COKENIAS vill include, in addition to the letter of introduction, copies of the FUNEERIAI-DTHABEAS correspondence to date. Headquarters realizes that this correspondence is already available to COKENIAS, since copies were pouched with HCSW-274, but it is believed that COKENIAS will be in a firmer position vis-a-vis FUNDERIAL if he can produce his own copies of such correspondence, direct from DTHABEAS.

6. Since DTHA-EAS/

J. C. KING

H D F. HOI MAN, JR.
DAVID W. SENSER
CWH
DC/R I/WH
C/R I/WH

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

HCSW-345
page 2

6.  Since D'THADEAS has written to COREIAS on the basis of a "previous acquaintance", it now becomes imperative for COREIAS to be briefed on DTEA FAS and certain of its personnel. Headquarters would therefore like to know the extent of CONCIAS present knowledge of DTHA EAS, in order that ve may supply him with whatever background information he may need to be convincing in his role as an old friend of a DTHAFEAS director.

7.  Headquarters will forward comments requested in paragraph 4 of HCSA-409 subsecuent to the actual introduction of CONT.IAS into the FURIOSO-C picture.

J. C. KING
CWH

Attachment:
Draft of suggested reply of COKENIAS
to DTHAPEAS
31 August 1953

Distribution:
3 - Santiago
2 - WH/RR.I
1 - WH/Tail Room
1 - RI

WHD/LVEbert/mw

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

D
R
A
T

Attachment to:
NCS-345

Dear

I have received and considered your kind letter of _______ and am sincerely flattered that you should be willing to place such confidence in me. I would be proud to serve as an "honorary" representative of the Foundation, and pending receipt of the necessary further details, I will be happy to accept.

You were entirely correct in assuming that I have maintained an active interest in the good work of the Foundation. In fact, my interest, rather than diminishing since I left the U. S., has greatly increased in view of my observations and experiences here in Chile. There is a great need down here for just such activities as you have mentioned in your letter, and I would welcome an opportunity such as you have presented, thereby I can contribute to the Foundation's program of assistance.

In conclusion may I say that I shall look forward to meeting and working with FUNDRIAL and FUNETRIAL-1 as soon as you can furnish me with the laters of introduction to these gentlemen. I a.tee that the task at hand is not one to be measured in terms of salary, and I shall consider the satisfaction I amect to derive from this work as ample remuneration.

Thanking you again for your expression of confidence in me, I am

Very truly yours,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

C
0
P
Y

SECRET
Security Interniston

October 6, 1953

Dear FUNEBRIAL:

It is my privilege, by means of this letter, to introduce to you my good friend, Mr. COKENIAS, who has recently, and very graciously, consented to act as the Foundation's personal representative in Chile.

I have taken the liberty of asking Mr. COKENIAS to serve in this capacity primarily because the statutes of our Foundation require that we seek the services of a U.S. citizen to represent us in any foreign country in which one or more Foundation grants may be operative. In addition, however, I earnestly believe this arrangement will serve to strengthen the very promising relationship already established between us and to stimulate those activities which are of mutual interest to us. I had not mentioned this stipulation in our previous correspondence, but I do so now in view of the possible imminence of a formal agreement between Propaganda Por Chile and the Foundation. Our receipt of your promised printing cost estimates would pave the way for approval and detailed planning of an actual grant of assistance.

It is my hope and expectation that Mr. COKENIAS will call upon you in the near future to present his respects and ours. As our representative he is authorized and prepared to discuss all ratters of mutual concern. Mr. COKENIAS has been instructed to extend to you, to Sr. __________ (to whom, I trust, you will introduce Mr. COKENIAS), and to your grocs as a whole, every possible courtesy and assistance. It is ry sincere desire that this personal contact will prove to be of cormon benefit.

Enclosed you will find a copy of my letter of this date, to Mr. COKENIAS. At the same time, I am sending Mr. COKENTAS a copy of this letter to you, as well as copies of our previous correspondence, so that he may familiarize himself with developments to date.

Trusting that you and Sr. __________ will receive Mr. COKENTAS as our representative in the same spirit with which he has offered to serve, and hoping that this arrangement will mark the beginning cì a worthwhile and enduring association, I remain,

Very ccrdially yours,

DIEABRAS

cc: COKENTAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

COPY

Santiago, 31 de Octubre de 1953

DIHABEAS

My apreciado senor :

He tenido el placer de conocer al Senor COKENIAS. El me ha dicho que no es necesario que mis cartas sean escritas en ingles, lo que facilitara nuestra correspondencia pues mis conocirientos de la lengua inglesa son tan rudimentarios que re veia precisado cada vez, a buscar un amigo americano, de buena volunted y corfianza, que me tradujera las cartas que le he estado enviando. Achaques de salud hand contribuido a no responder oportunamente, como hubiera sido ni deseo, sus cartas.

Ya estamos en contacto con el Senor  y esperamos llegar muy luego a un entendimi ento para proseguir con nuestro proyecto de reeditar el periodico, "Por Chile".

El senor COKEÑIAS le enviara muy pronto un resumen de lo que estamos acordando.

Se despide muy afectuosamente, S.S.

FUNEPRIAL

(Above letter by FUNEBRIAL acknowledges that he has been introduced to COKENIAS and that the latter will send to DTHABEAS shortly a resume of the PPC plans.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

Project Cutting Clearance Sheet

Project Title FURIOSO C (PAGROVELL) Amendment No. 2 Project No. ____________

Developed by John W. Bruning / FI/OPS/I 18 December 1953
Organization Date

Case Officer
Reviewed by: Robert W. Heubner 12/30/53 J. C. King 12 Jan '54
Foreign Branch Chief Date Division Chief Date

Concurrences: D. L. Wray CPP/WH 1/12/54
Date
Fred R. Springlood for C/EE/PLANS/COVER 14 Jan '54
Date
Thomas Carroll / STC/JPB 20 Jan. '54
Date
Pure subsidy - requires no participation
Lewis Stephens 5 Feb. 1954
C/Commercial Div. Date

(PP/Press-concurred on #2, 29 Jan. '54)

(PP/PAD-concurred on 3, 27 Jan. '54)

* (BUDGET DIV- see note below from #2, 10 Feb. '54)
  Approved subject to conditions below CFO

(DD/P-ADMIN-concurred on #2, 12 Feb. '54)
Conditions of Approval: # "funds available"
J. C. King - for CPP - 19 Feb '54

S-E-C-R-E-T

LEB #1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

S-E-C-R-E-T
Security Information

(PBGROVEL)
Project Title FURIOSO C Amendment No. 2 Project No.

The following Line and Staff Officers of the Western Hemisphere Division have
signed and concur with this project.

Concurred: Psychological Warfare Officer WHD David U. Geous
DEC22
Date

Economic Warfare Officer WHD
Date

Sobotage Warfare Officer WHD
Date

Countersabota e Officer WHD
Date

Puramilitary Officer WID
Date

Labor Officer WHD
Date

Logistics Officer WHD
Date

Budget Officer F&O WHD
Date

Plans Officer P&O WHD A Preushany Jr. 22 Dec 53
Date

Project Coordinator WHD 12Jan 54
Date

Chief, P&O WHD
Date

Conditions of Approval

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET
Security Information
-2-

PROJECT CUTLINE
Project: *FURIOSO-C (PFGROVEL) Amendment No.2.*
Type: Operational

I. AUTHORIZATION

A. Basic Program Authorization

1.  Basic project PBGROVEL was approved on 12 February 1952 for the establishment of a mechanism capable of conducting KUGOWN activities aimed at the accomplishment of WHD missions (a) and (b) in Chile; as set out in Section II (paragraph 2 b) of Annex B to the WHD/KUGOWN Strategic Plan dated 1 November 1951. This task was assigned priority one in Phase I (1 Jan. - 30 June 1952) in the aforementioned plan. Funds in the amount of $4,700.00 were allotted to this Project, to provide salary for contract agent Paul D. LANGEVIN (FULMINATOR-1) for the remainder of FY 52, to cover the cost of bringing him to PBPRIME for a period of covert training, provide his *per diem* allowance while here, and to transport him back to Santiago, Chile, following complotion of training.

2.  Amendment No.1 to basic project PBGROVEL was approved on 14 July 1952 for the amount of $8,000 (later reduced to $6,000) to be made available as a loan, at 4% interest, to contract agent Paul D. LANGEVIN; the loan to be secured by a lien on machinery and equipment valued at approximately $10,000; interest anxi principal to be amortized at the rate of $500 per month, the full amount of the agent's salary. Authorization for PBGROVEL Amend-ment No.1 was the same as that for the basic project PBGROVEL.

3.  The 1954 WH Operational Program, approved by Chief, KUBARK on 10 August 1953, authorized a maximum expenditure of $10,000 for this project during FY 1954.

Security Information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

## II. REFERENCES

A. Same as for basic Project PEGROVEL

B. Budgetary data for this amendment (Annex A)

C. DTHAREAS - FUNEERIAL correspondence (Annex B)

D. HCS-W-345, with attachment (Annex C)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

### Security Information

-6-

# III. THE PROPOSAL

## A. Statement of the Proposal

1. In basic project PIGROVEL, it was proposed to undertake the development in Chile of a group or committee composed of Chilean nationals which would engage overtly and actively in anti-EGGYPSY efforts and would function as a WID mechanism for the accomplishment of WHD missions (a) and (b) aforementioned. As the first step in implementing the development of the comittee, it was proposed to engage the services of a PEPRIE rational in Chile as a contract agent whose task was to select, and exercise subtle guidance over a qualified Chilean, the latter to act as the organizer of the committee. It was further stated that at such time as development of the committee warrants, the necessary steps would be taken to place the comittee in the proper relationship with the DTHABEAS foundation for purposes of cover and support. The provisions of the foregoing are now revised in accordance with the proposal of this amendment as set out below. The overall objective of the basic project remains unaltored.

2. It is proposed, in this Amendment No.2 to Basic Project PEGROVEL, that WHD furnish technical and financial support, not to exceed $10,000 during Fiscal Year 1954, to an indigonous group of Chileans for the purpose of aiding the group in its overt anti-BGGYPSY and anti-BIGHT KUGOWN-typo activities. WED support will be specifically designed to assist in the re-activation of the group along its original lines and to foster by support periodically advanced, the revival of the group's official organ, a weekly news nagazine. It is anticipated that the indigenous group will eventually also serve as a mechanism for the channeling of WHD support to other worthy groups with similar aims. (Seo Annex C).

## B. Background

1. In 1947, a group of influential Chilean business and intellectual leaders formed a legally chartered organization dedicated to an overt and active anti-BGGYPSY and anti-BICHT program through use of all types of KUGOWN media. The group published an anti-BGGYPSY weekly news magazine designed for the working class audience. The activities of this group, including publication of its official organ, were later suspended as a result of financial difficulties, public solicitation and subscriptions being, at the time, the only source of funds.

2. Through the encouragement and subtle direction by

Security Informa


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# Security Stormation

Mission Santiago, working through contract agent Paul D. LANGEVIN, FUNEBRIAL, an unwitting Chilean with excellent contacts in business and intellectual circles, has succceded in ro-activating the former organization, and has recontly approached DIHAREAS with a request for support for the group's activitios.

## C. Curent Status

1.  The provisions of basic project PBGROVEL and of Amendment No.1 have been fulfilled. Contract agent Paul D. LANGEVIN has accomplished his mission, that of selecting and subtly guiding a Chilean citizen as the indigenous organizer of the committee. The loan to LANGEVIN, provided under the torms of Amendment Ho.1, has been paid in full, and the services of the contract agent, for this project, were terminated as of 31 August 1953.

2.  The present committee, composed of influential Chilean citizens, has been in touch with the DIHAREAS foundation since Narch, 1953. The initial contact and subsequent correspondence with DTHADEAS have been handled by FUNEBRIAL, who, while not a menbor of the original (1947) group, is an outstanding caricaturist and satirist with abundant experience in journalism and publishing, and who has taken the initiative in re-forming the once-active committee.

3.  DTHABEAS is currently awaiting receipt, from FUNEBRIAL, of a detailed estimato of financial support needed, to include printing costs of the group's woekly news magazine. The publication itself will be published and edited by FUNEBRIAL-1, a dynamic anti-BGGYPSY individual who also published the official organ of the 1947 organization. Upon receipt of the abovementioned estimatès, and pending thoir review and approval by WHD, DTHABEAS should be prepared to extend technical and financial support up to the amount of $10,000 per annun. It is understood that such WHD support, channeled through DTHABEAS will supplement at least an oqual amount which is to be raised locally by the FUNERRIAL committee.

4.  Contract agent Paul D. LANGEVIN has been replaced, as the cut-out and principal agent for WHD, by Staff Agent Ihrtin J. COKENTAS. The latter is presently being introduced into the operation as the Chilean representative of the DTHABEAS foundation; this is being done by means of correspondence between DTHABEAS, FUNEERIAL, and Martin J. COLENIAS. Once WHD support to the FUNNEBRIAL group is actually extended by DTHAREAS, COKENIAS, through the exercise of subtle guidance made possible by his capacity as a DIHABEAS representative,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

SECRET
Security Information
- 3 -

will exert at least indirect control over the activities of the group.

D. Advantages to be derived by KUGOWN

1. By supporting the activities of the FUNEBRIAL organization, WHD will obtain the services of a secure mechanism unwitting of ODYCKE interest, capable of conducting extensive KUGOWN activities on an overt and indigenous basis.

2. In addition to execution of its own KUGOWN type program, the FUNEBRIAL group will serve as the focal point for funding and direction of other KUGOWN activities carried on by other indigenous groups having similar aims. By extension of support to other such groups, the FUNEBRIAL organization could thus become the nucleus of a secure KUGOWN network, requiring no direct contact by WHD/KUGOWN personnel under ODACID cover.

3. Since this operation would be funded by WHD headquarters, through the WHD mechanism DTHADEAS, and since control will be exercised by DTHAREAS through its Staff Agent representative in Chile, Mission Santiago will be relieved of all but a monitoring and reporting responsibility. This is in accordance with the WHD plan of removing direct control of, and attribution for, KUGOWN operations from the official station.

E. Risks Involved

Risks involved in establishing the KUGOWN channels envisaged in this project should be minimal. The indigenous individuals concerned have been recruited on an unwitting basis and will be handled by Martin J. COKENIAS directly. The FUNEERIAL group, as an existing legal entity, has good natural cover and can accept direct attribution for its KUGOWN activities. No Station personnel will be involved and the possibility of ODYCKE interest being disclosed will be further minimized by securely funding the group and backstopping both Kartin J. COKENIAS and the group's activities by DTHAREAS. FUNEBRIAL will be unwitting of the original source of his funds and of ODYOKE interest.

SECRET
Security information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SECRET
Security Intuiration
- 10 -

IV. THE RECOMENDATION

That the funds curently approved for this project under the WID Operational Plan for FY 1954 in the amount of $10,000 be authorized for the implementation of the proposal outlined in this arendront. This support is not to exceed $3,000 during the remainder of FY 1954. Funds used in furthering the revised plans for this project will be provided periodically to the DTHADEAS funding mechanism after receipt of statomonts from FUNEBRIAL as to the proposed use of the monies.

# SECRET
Security Information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# SECRET
Security Information
- 12 -

V. OPERATIONAL OUTLINE

A. Area of Operation

1. Geographic area

a) Chile

2. Specific target groups

a) Business and intellectual circles

b) Working class reader audience

B. Operational Control

1. Control exercised by Headquarters

WHD/KUGCWN will exercise operational control through DTHABEAS which will disburse funds to the FUNEREAL group in accordance with specific WED instructions. Control will be effected through the allotment of funds on the basis of budgeted need, through DTHABEAS, to the FUNEREAL group upon evidence of satisfactory performance of the missions assigned to this organization.

2. Control exercised by the Field

Chief of Mission, Santiago, will exercise indirect control through Staff Agent Martin J. COKENIAS. By means of independent checking and reporting procedures, Mission Santiago will keep headquarters informed of the FUNEREAL group's activities. Should the group fail to provide satisfactory performance, Mission Santiago will advise headquarters to withdraw financial and technical assistance.

C. Duration of the Project

It is anticipated that this project, if approved for FY 1954, will be continued in the future by means of a re-allotment of funds obtained through the yearly Operational Programs.

D. Possibility of Overlapping Jurisdiction

It is anticipated that FUNEREAL may eventually be used to channel support to other groups in Chile, either existing


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

E. Personnel Required

1.  FUNEERIAL and FUNEERIAL-1, both unwitting Chilean officials of the FUNEERIAL organization, are immediately available as Principal Agent and sub-agent, respectively.

2.  Martin J. CORENJAS, a MID Staff Agent, will be the field Case Officer for this Project.

F. Communication Plan

1.  The present direct correspondence between DTHABEAS and FUNEBRIAL will be supplemented by correspondence between DTHAREAS and Martin J. CORENJAS.

2.  Existing facilities will suffice for communications between Headquarters and Mission Santiago and between Mission and Martin J. CORENJAS.

G. Support Plan

1.  Support to be furnished by Headquarters

Support furnished by headquarters will consist primarily of operational, propaganda, and technical advice, as well as the provision of funds.

2.  Support to be furnished in the Field

Mission Santiago will observe covertly the activities of FUNEERIAL's group to assess the effectiveness of such of their activities as are related to this project.

3. Funding

a.  At the present time the specific financial requirements of the FUNEERIAL committee cannot be given, nor can any firm schedule of disbursements to the committee be set forth in this amendment since these requirements will be met on a day-to-day and month-to-month basis depending on the needs of the committee.

b. Disbursements from funds authorized under this amendment will be controlled as follows. Periodically, every few months, the FUNEERIAL committee will submit a budget to DTHAREAS for the funds it requires for the succeeding quarter.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# Story Information

Upon approval of this budget by Headquarters, the funds will be placed to the account of Staff Agent Martin J. COKEHIAS, who will be accountable for their disbursement in accordance with Confidential Funds regulations. COKEHIAS will disburse such funds in the smallest amounts possible, consistent with maintaining the operating efficiency of the project. He shall not, moreover, make additional disbursements until he has received tangible evidence of expenditure (receipts) for previous disbursements. Ordinary disbursements should not exceed $1,000.00 and should be covered by receipts within thirty days. Where the Staff Agent is certain that receipts cannot be obtained for large disbursements and where the expenditures cannot be authenticated with certainty by the Staff Agent, an amendment to the project should be prepared and a proposed administrative plan should be forwarded to Headquarters for approval. Staff Agent Martin J. COKEHIAS shall take all reasonable precautions to insure that he maintains complete control of the financial phases of this operation at all times and that all disbursements adhere to the Confidential Funds Regulations and the objectives authorized in this project and its amendments.

## H. Reports Procedures

In granting financial aid to FUNEBRIAL's group, DTHABEAS will request periodic reports of activities and expenditures. These reports will be covertly checked by Mission Santiago.

## I. Coordination

No coordination will be required beyond WHD.

## J. Cover

As a completely overt and legitimate local organization, with an avowed anti-DGGYPSY program, the FUNEBRIAL group has natural cover. WID support will be covered by channeling funds through the secure DTHABEAS mechanism, Martin J. COKEHIAS is a Staff Agent under unofficial cover in addition to which his relationship with the FUNEBRIAL group will be carried out in his capacity as the local representative of DTHABEAS.

## K. Security

All indigenous personnel involved in this project are unwitting of ODYCKE interest. Funding, control, and guidance of the FUNEBRIAL group will be handled in such a way that ODYCKE interest will not be disclosed to indigenous or unauthorized persons. Attribution for the group's activities can and will be accepted by the group. The original source of funds will not be known by the group.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# PROJECT FINANCIAL DATA

"MAY NOT EXCEED SEGRET CLASSIFICATION

RESPONSIBLE STAFF OR DIVISION
W/ERI

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

PROJECT CRYPTON

STDICSO C (A2)

FISCAL PERIOD COLERD

December 1953 THRU 30 JUNE 1954

CASE OFFICER

John W. Isacinrer

## A. PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS

Indicate number and type of personnel required and estimated total compensation for salary, allowances, travel and related employee benefits. Include everyone paid from project.

| TYPE                 | U. S. PERSONNEL | FOREIGN NATIONAL | BASE SALARY                             | ESTIMATED COMPENSATION | TOTAL  |
| -------------------- | --------------- | ---------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------ |
| STAFF EMPLOYEES      |                 |                  |                                         |                        |        |
| STAFF AGENTS         | 1               |                  | 0*                                      | 200 (travel,etc.)      | 200    |
| CAREER AGENTS        |                 |                  |                                         |                        |        |
| CONTRACT AGENTS      |                 |                  |                                         |                        |        |
| CONTRACT CONSULTANTS |                 |                  |                                         |                        |        |
| DETAILED PERSONNEL   |                 |                  |                                         |                        |        |
| FIELD AGENTS         |                 |                  |                                         |                        |        |
| MILITARY             |                 | 5                | 3,000                                   | 500                    | 3,500  |
| ALL OTHER            |                 |                  | *Salary paid from Station S/0 Allotment |                        |        |
| TOTAL A.             | 1               | 5                | $3,000                                  | $700                   | $3,700 |

## B. SUPPLIES, MATERIEL AND EQUIPMENT

Indicate amount required in applicable spaces. Attach complete supporting list for each.

| COMMO    | CHEMICAL | QUARTERMASTER SUPPLIES | OTHER SUPPLIES  |
| -------- | -------- | ---------------------- | --------------- |
| MEDICAL  |          |                        | $ 200           |
|          | ORDNANCE | SPECIAL DEVICES        | OTHER EQUIPMENT |
| TOTAL B. | $200     |                        |                 |

## C. OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Indicate volume and nature of expenses such as (1) maintaince of two operational houses abroad (2) spot purchase of Information, ate.

Office, rental and utilities $1,200

Publication equipment and supplies (locally purchased) 2,000

Local reimbursement for repair, printing, and similar services 900

TOTAL C. $4,100

## D. SUBSIDY OR PROPRIETARY PAYMENTS

if funds are to be turned over to individuals or groups in large lump suas to be expended by the individuals or groups at their discretion to accomplish an agrees-upon objective, explain the type of financial accounts, factual verification or statements, if any, other than a receipt for the lamp sum, which will be obtained.

None anticipated

TOTAL D.

TOTAL FUND REQUIREMENTS (A + B + C+0) $8,000

SECRET

FORM MO.
JUN 1952 59-25

(1)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

## E. FUNDING REQUIREMENTS

| ROXIMATE DATES AND AMOUNTS OF MONEY REQUIRED |                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| December 1953 $500                           |                                                                    |
| January 1954 2,000                           | March 1954 and each succeeding month through June 1954 $1,000 cach |
| February 1954 1,500                          |                                                                    |

FORM REQUIRED

[X] U. S. DOLLARS  [ ] FOREIGN (SPECIFY)."  [ ] NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENTS (SPECIFY)

SPECIAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS OR METHODS OF TRANSMISSION

None known

## F. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS

(Within security limitations, list any other facts or circumstances which will enable Special Support Staff to lend adequate logistical support to this project. Indicate specificationally the "RUSH" or "TIME" factors Involved.)

Expeditious approval is requested so that money can be expended as soon as the FUNERRIAL group submits to DIUAREAS its concrete cost estimates for setting up offices and equipment.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

FURIOSO/C 2

Originating Div: WH

Approved: Richard Helms 19 Feb. '54

Note: addition of lots are of
$8,000,000 +14,500,000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SPECIAL SECURITY DIVISION

THROUGH : FI/STC/3P3

SUBJECT : Request for Badge--David Atlee PHILLIPS

1. It is requested that a limited badge be issued to Mr. David A. Phillips, covert Agent for PP/CT, working in the newspaper and lecture field. The limited badge should include access to the Admin. Building, 2210 "E" Street, I, J, K, and L Buildings.

2. Mr. Phillips' needs to have access to these buildings because of his frequent contact with various officials to better equip him for his future assignment. It is anticipated that he will be assigned to this Agency for one year.

3. For further information, contact W. F. Hawley, PP/ Security Officer, room 1412 K Building, extension 3606.

(SIGNED) COLWELL K. BEARS

FOR

JOHN E. BAKER
Acting Chief
Psychological and Paramilitary Operations Staff

PP/ADMIN/WFHawley:dmw, 26 August 1954

Distribution:

Addressee - Orig. & 1

FI/STC/SPB - 1

PP/Admin - 2

FI/RI/An - 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

PROJECT
FURIOSO C

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
Job #61-1013/60 Box 14
WAIAI CIAX PARIX

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

5. ANALYST
   C. McNew
6. DATE PROCESSED
   28 Nov-61
7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
    X
    DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Project portion has been removed and sent to RI/AR. For review of file, contact RI/AR x-2471 using RI file number indicated above.

x-ref 201-88764 FULMINATOR-1

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# THE BAY CITY TIMES

DAILY AND SUNDAY
BAY CITY, MICHIGAN

IRS 75-4978

David A. Phillips
Reporter
Aug. 5, 1975

Assistant Attorney General
In charge of Freedom of Information Act Inquiries
Department of Justice
Washington D.C.

Dear Sir,

In accordance with the amendment to the Freedom of Information Act that took effect February, I request information on any file that Central Intelligence Agency may have on The Bay City Times of

I understand the amendment requires the CIA to respond to all inquiries within ten days of receipt.

My request for information on any file the CIA may keep on this newsgaper was sent to your office. I was unable to obtain a mailing address for the CIA.

Thank you

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

25 August 1975

David A. Phillips Request on The Bay City Times

75-4978


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# "CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &
   DISPOSITION SECTION, RM GE-58, ON OR BEFORE
   DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
   INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM 179a USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

3. WH/Chile

4. M. Capraro

5. IP/EIS GA-10

6. D. Isaac

7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 450740

15. RETURN TO:
    RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

RECORDS CENTER

JOB NO. 61-1013/80

SPACE NO. 90713

450740

FILE NO.

DOCUMENT

FOLDER NO. 2

BOX NO. 14

![image of checklist with secret, confidential, internal use only, and unclassified options]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# "CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &
   DISPOSITION SECTION, RM GE-58, ON OR BEFORE
   DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
   INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM
12-62 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

3. Wit fihile
4. Th. Caprese
5. D. Isuge

6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. RETURN TO:
    RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58

![checkbox] SECRET

![checkbox] CONFIDENTIAL

![checkbox] INTERNAL USE ONLY

![checkbox] UNCLASSIFIED

## DUE DATE

To Requester:
Please return this
reference to RID/ARD/RCU
immediately after use.

RECORDS CENTER
JOB NO. 61-1013/80
SPACE NO.
450740
FILE NO.
DOCUMENT
FOLDER NO. 3
BOX NO. 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# "CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &
   DISPOSITION SECTION, RM GE-58, ON OR BEFORE
   DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT ΤΟ ΑΝΟΤHER
   INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM 179a USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

3. WH/Chele

M. Caprara

4. IP/EIS GA-10

D. Isaac

5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 450740

12. 
13. 
14. 
RETURN TO RECORDS CENTER
IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE
JOB 61-1013 BOX 24

To Requester:
Please return this
reference to RID/ARD/RCU
immediately after use.

RECORDS CENTER

JOB NO. 61-1013/86

SPACE NO. 450740

FILE NO.

DOCUMENT

FOLDER NO. /

BOX NO. 14

15. RETURN TO:
    RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS
3-62 EDITIONS

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

![due date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)