# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 5/26/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90092-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68227-927

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/08/1965

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: ROBERT GLENN THOMPSON

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: RPT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

PORTING OFFICE
NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN
NEW YORK

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
3/15 - 9/23/65

TITLE OF CASE
CHANGED

DATE
10/8/65

SECRET

TYPED BY
dmk

ROBERT GLENN THOMPSON aka
Samuel Katzman, James Olson,
Bob Robertson, "Tommy"

REPORT MADE BY
ROBERT F. LAUDWEIN

CHARACTER OF CASE
ESP - R

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE
CLASS. & FYT BY
REASON -
DATE OF REVIEW

The title of this report is marked "Changed" to add
the name, BOB ROBERTSON, which THOMPSON indicated he had
possibly used in the Fall of 1959 in a flight from Detroit
to NYC, and the name, "TOMMY" by which name Mrs. HAROLD
RETZLAFF, El Paso, Texas, knew THOMPSON.

Bureau has advised that the code name, "OXTANK",
formerly used in communications other than reports and
letterhead memoranda will no longer be used.

REFERENCES

NYrep of SA ROBERT F. LAUDWEIN, 3/15/65 and 5/28/65

ADMINISTRATIVE
Regarding the summary of THOMPSON'S story in the
"Saturday Evening Post" (SEP), the following information,
obtained through interviews of THOMPSON and through other
sources, is set forth to clarify the SEP story.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

8 - Bureau (65-68227) (RM)

1 - USA, EDNY (RM)

1 - Butte (65-675) (Info) (AM/RM)

1 - Detroit (65-3540) (Info) (RM)

2 - New York (65-22427)

COPIES CONTINUED IN THIS DOCUMENT.

REC-41

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

SOVIET SECTION

NW 50953 DocId:32330756 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Ост 29 11 об АМ '65

Copies of Indep. pages 241 thric 256 to State, CIA, OST, ONI, ACSI, DIA
Alice (Hall) by liaison 11- 22-65. In Judo.....
Pls attach this index to my report in this dated 10/8/65 which was disseminated to 10/26/65 by liaison.

I copy reed from MY by R/B 7-7-66
in response to Bureau 6-30-66
and sent to Regat attawa for delivery to (S) (Rom) by, by 0-9- 7-13-66 (pp. 1-256)

SECRET

Ост 11 3 47 РМ 65

FEB 1 1966
JAN 28 1966

Ост 13 6 31 РМ 65

NW 50953 DocId:32330756 Page 3

![APPROPRIATE AGENCIES]
REC'D DOM INTELL DIV. 12.44 PM OCT 23
REC'D DOM INTELL DIV.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

8

NY 65-22427
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

THOMPSON stated that this individual's face was somewhat familiar, and that the name definitely was familiar to him. THOMPSON identified this individual as a Captain HARVEY, whose name appeared on communications directed to OSI from the 7983rd Army Unit. THOMPSON remembered that Captain HARVEY's name had appeared on name check requests submitted to OSI Berlin, from the 7983rd Army Unit. THOMPSON believed that the Soviets either showed THOMPSON a picture of HARVEY or asked THOMPSON about HARVEY. THOMPSON stated that he furnished whatever available information he had about HARVEY to the Soviets, but he could not now recall the nature of this information.

Cover Page


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)