# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form
Date: 4/14/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10281-10028

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-80750-4563

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SHRODER, R. I.

TO: ROSEN

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: [Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

UNITED STATES GO 'NMENT

## Memorandum

TO: Mr. Rosen

FROM: I. Shroder

DATE: March 15, 1967

SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA

KIDNAPING

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. Malley

1 - Mr. Shroder

1 - Mr. Thompson

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Trotter

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

This relates to information received from CIA in-
dicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela
may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas
Keogh. No investigation is being conducted by us and appro-(5)
priate dissemination has previously been made.(54)

At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA finger-
prints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished
to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This
material is being made, part of this file for possible use in the
event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the
following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick
Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh; Elizabeth Teresa Keogh;
Francis Xavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III, and Maria Rita
Keogh

ACTION:

This matter has been coordinated with the Identifi-
cation Division and it is recommended that this memo and
attachments be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB,
in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and
filed.

Enclosure: ENCLOSURE ATTACHED. ST-114

Fingerprints of following detailed

MARIA RITA KEOGH

EDWARD JOSEPH KEOGH

CHRISTINA MARGARITA KEOGH

ELIZABETH TERESA KEOGH

FRANCIS XAVIER KEOGH

THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH JR..

THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH III

CIA HAS/NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE DA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.

EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS

SECRET
