180-10145-10285

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

To: Mr. Robert Morrison
House Select Committee on
Assassinations
3381 House Annex #2

FROM: Office of Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency Box54
Room 7 D 35
Washington, D.C. 20505 Folders
#1

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

| INFORMATION    | ACTION    | XXXX RETENTION                                                          | LOAN | CLASS. |
| -------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ |
| CONTROL NUMBER | DOC. DATE | SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred)                                        |      |        |
|                | 5/13/78   | Sanitized Notes Leslie Wiselman of William Alexander Morgan             |      | S      |
|                |           | Sanitized Notes - Beth Lichtenfels of DeMohrenschildt                   |      | S      |
|                | 5/12/78   | Sanitized Notes - Bob Genxman of Daniel A. Parsons                      |      | S      |
|                |           | Sanitized Notes Leslie Wizelman of Herman Greenspun and Gordon McLendon |      | S      |
|                | 5/24/78   | Sanitized Notes of Jim Wolf of Deryabin file                            |      | S      |
|                |           | Sanitized Notes & Patricia Orr of David W. Ferrie                       |      | S      |


SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents)

DATE OF RECEIPT

FORM 37728
10-76

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

19561

RECEIPT

RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY
2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK
3 - CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK

10145-10285


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DDO
Leslie Wizelman
8/13/78

William Alexander Morgan

The Morgan File contains the following documents and information:

Information covering 1959-1973:

1- Cable dated march 24, 1959 stating that morgan is staying at the Hotel Capri in Havana and is very close to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. Morgan hired Tony Beacon, Phila. Daily newsman, to handle publicity. POA request initiated, for morgan, ay march.

2- Biographic Data Sheet: Alias "El Americano"
DOB 4-19-28 POB: Cleveland.

3- Request for Cancellation of Approval - 8 May 5, 1959
reason: Derogatory info. Cancelled May 6, 1959

Information covering 1 Jan 1960 - 14 Aug 1974:

① May 19, 1960 cable from the Director reporting that
was in contact with Hqs on March 18 re a plan. They're considering recruiting morgan. inquired if CIA had any operational interest in Morgan and the group around him, mentioning Bob McCormack, Bob Brown, Tony Nichols, Morgan's bodyguards:
michael S. Colin, Jack Ossorio, Frank Emmick, Jerry Hemming, ana June Cobb (Fidel's secretary). Hqs replied no operational interest. Cobb was from N.Y and working for Castro as a translator since Sept. 1959.

@ 17 march 1960- source stated that on 16 Feb 1960 he had Observed morgan in Toledo, Ohio in company of Roberto Augustus Brown, Jr.; Toledo Police Dept


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

- 2 -

morgan

③ march 22, 1960 cable reporting that they feel strongly that it would be a serious mistake for any U.S. gov't agency to recruit morgan for operational purposes. "morgan who reportedly under local cloud is perfectly capable betraying U.S. or his own mother if it would advance his personal interests."

④ memo, 29 march 1960 subject: meeting with U.S. army officer to discuss Plan they are considering to recruit William morgan. Army officer was told that the CIA had no operational interest in William morgan and they had a bad impression of morgan. The army officer felt that "successful recruitment of morgan would be extremely worthwhile."

⑤ Oct 5, 1960 memo reporting that on 4 Oct 1960 FI staff member was informed that major Carpenter Asst chief Staff Intelligence (U.S. Army) from the office of ACSI was requesting a secret writing system from SAB to be passed to morgan. TSD was informed that WH/4 had made known its objections to the ACSI on any use of Morgan approx. 6 months ago and that the Branch. position had not changed. "It was still felt that to have any dealings with morgan was a mistake, and that ACSI was doing it over the strenuous objections of WH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

morgan

SECRET

6) cable Oct 5, 1960 reporting that a secret writing system had been provided for issuance to Morgan. "U.S. Army using morgan inspite strenuous HQS recommendations to contrary."

7) Background Info

Oct 21, 1960 - Morgan's arrest announced.

8) Copy of the last written statement made by William Alexander morgan before his execution.

9) Extract from a memo" of conversation written by the FI Departmental - Coordination Group re Discussion with office of dated a may 1973. OACSI said Asst Chief Staff Intelligence (us. Army) the OACSI files were incomplete as to the nature of Army contact / or we of morgan. "An ISR check confirmed that Morgan was not registered at any time , but that he was connected in an undefined manner to a registered source of Army."

10- Info on Frank Emmick , Gus kangos,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

Beeh Kuertenfelde

S. Makrensschildt

Vol 3

Scene disappeared on Cipril 14, 1954, according to Mr. Goch, pres of Karden of Dallas, 416 S. Harpras St. Jessee worked for him from Sept 6, 1953- Cipril 14, 1954. Left without notice.
Friend. Graydon Heartstic of Dallas Times Herald - fashion Reporter

Friend - Elizabeth Cleveland, writes for a Kline publication

married appearance says dob was May 5, 1914

Norden - 1914

Albert Stileman. Personaire due for Sanger - Harris Co says files reveal

Maiden name - Fomenks

JCB - May 5, 1919

was saleslady for $50.00 a week had been making $300-600 a month as a designer

Mrs. Cuba Selby - supervices - Mckinney dept. Harper. Harian said Jake M handed two dilling sent her a Christmas card telling her they lived in little house on the side of a mountain in west and received mail thru Ames Kimberley

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Emend. - Rune Raigeradsky. Sam Brelen, Igor Sashurin
May E. Clark, Henry Regaty Leun
Col. Frumenes Calor (laughter w/ .com's dem's)
Lacur Naughton

In Jun 1963 - dem ake J Del of be chuld help a young man get his desi- pharf changech - said he was form fant world, had defected to Lussia and hati- turned. Attempted but pould not reach yoreng man. Mattu dropped.....

claims to have m uta mit a ligh Rusuar officiel in Maker City - (Mikoyan ?)

dem to 400,000 from Raigaradsky to develop a corp which would develop commercial resources in Haiti

Pleasur
Rogaty claims AM made to Meki in early 1950's

Belonged to Petroleum Alud in alles

Jay Ryfor claus dem & J to have been in Yuys- at some time due to picheres he had seen

& m had savings accent of 1280.10-1st Kat Bank of Fallen

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

3rd Agency - FBI doc 3/19/64, 3 pages Jr G de M
Wood Kahler - Opened, dis Jovar

Sent catered Haiti of tourist card - not passport

2nd mir Ito through J. Bauer Co.
Ld moves into YMCA

Interview of Gary Taylor
AM Jaime to have worked for State Dep
in mid 1950's

Jodie M. - 5'5"-135

Mr. JM Burre recalled cover. of Je M
in which he stated De had been forced to
join the Communist party while serving in...
Russia - Alternate = death

Mr Dom Sands - Manager of Pitkin County Commerce.
& Owner of Aspen Lumber and Supply Co. said
There has never been any organization known
as Rangely Supply Co. at Aspen

Report of James Ward - 3/14/64.
On 1/03 he wrote letter to acquaintance
Stating he had been informed by FBI that
life was harmless - interviewed at Bez - au
1 week - said Mary Clark tells her from case
was ok - was of impression Clark had
seen at FBI

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

S.Am was presenyou in Wilden, Oil C. wy Ed.G. Waley
Rad office in Republic Nat. Bank Bldg Km
1639-40 from Sept 3 954- May 28, 959

"Chicarene Endocrine Research Found - Dallas by Sharple

Mr. Source
Met HHO in 1962. HHO had arrived at S.Am home in middle of dinner but did not eat. After dinner, Mient to a house or nearby bldg in Dallas & showed a film covering entire trip thru Mexico. did not talk to HHO or see him again.

Col. Oslas states SAm casually mentioned he + some others were trying to arrange a divorce for - Martin from CIA.

Resume states he had special connections in govt circles in Cuba etc.

3d agency - FBI Report 3/10/64- Titlel - Jule m
FBI Doses dated 3/3/64 Jule M
2/28/64 15-R

Fueros- Serge Obolensky - restauranten in New York City

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Villa - Fonds of
Assets

Russian Student Fund

3rd Agency Org 28/6/65 - Philly
" 22/4/65 - Phoenix 731

(Vol 4) 3rd - ① J.G.J.d.m 18/3/64 LA
# 108-17448 (field) 100-32965

② J.G.J.d.m 26/3/64 Philly
#105-146 :105-102.29 (field) 100-32965 Bureau

③ J.G.J.d.m - Miami
26/3/64 #105-76 field
100-32965. Bureau

④ Phoenix 26/3/64 # PX100-2995-Bu.
100-32965

⑤ New York 25/3/64 NY/100-10310

⑥ New Orleans 25/3/64
105-2150 105-2184
100-32965-Bureau

⑦ 24/3/64 - DC - no #

⑧ Boston 24/3/64 105-11242
100-32965 Bu

① State Doc. Memo of Conver. Subj: Visit to
Dept by B.M. 24/4/64

② State telegram #881- 18/4/64 from Port de
#871 Presse "

④ FBI doc 17/4/64 in GM 105-632 (field
100-32965-Bureau

⑤ FBI doc 21/4/64 GM FT- no #


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET
Report
931 Af NY 15/4/64 Cut them 100-10310 free 100-32965
Burea
931 Report - Philly 14/4/64 Brydem 105-146 105-102)
4B1 Report- Dallas 13/4/64 on Jdam 105-10766- free
100-32965-Bur
931 Report NY 2/4/64 B+g 100=10310 filed
100-32965 Burea
931 Report Chicago 1/4/64 Jdam 105-123 free
" " DC 1/4/64 Exg -to #

after wasted
HM = member of Petroville Club-play
Tennis

'963- members of staff of ly business firm
had attended a discussion group in 1963 & LHI
was there,

Nov 4 1931 sentenced by tribune Correction
at Antwerp to 8 days in prison on chgs of resistance
to police officer + 8 days or fine of 182 francs
for drunken driving & use of false name. - 3y
fost probation.

7B1 Report 28/2/64- SEM contact of
Jedo Alekseevich Baranen - Soviet Deplo in
DC. Alekseevich, member of Soviet State.
Security Force since mid 1940's served in Cube

Marilyn Wilcox - Pan Am employee. Removed
from Jean + Suzanne. Stated that HM was a
good friend of Robert McElbernon top Pan
um address

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

... has made prior arrangments for i.m...
at Alban Powers

At 0830 7 May a call was made to Mrs. Matlack to confirm that Charles would be in DC on that day & that a meeting had been arranged by an agency rep for 12 noon. Mrs. Matlack reported that B & J had called her that person evening to confirm a 12:00 lunch appt w/ her. Mrs. Matlack was concerned that CIA & army should not be working at cross purposes. She had received authorization from ACBP to meet Charles at lunch & felt it would be impolite to withdraw. Since Army considered her the pt of contact of Charles.

WH division wanted meeting

Then changed to afternoon - Cate

Matlack believed that due to conflicting instructions she had been placed "in middle".

Matlack - Domestic Exploitation Sec. ACSI
Gary 4/4/77 - Dennis Berend planned to call in Dallas re PD article by T.E. "Sooner or later & will get onto our office in Dallas, find was there at the time & try to make a connection". Dennis just wanted to alert us.

3rd Attachment from R & R dated 4/4/77 from Dallas FO

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

inisther reference to trup 4/19/163-40 My Philly - does
alt mintron DC.

lileg mention that JDM How jun in sights as in
Oakleof a Dollarbors

My Times art. 20/101-163 arrest of...
Russell McLarry on chy of threatening JFK
lived in Oakciff" section of Dallas - an
sprawling area where (his lived.

impt name -
Sam Brelen - inwest. banker, interes
Thes Weller - Russian wife
Bernard Jarrow - reference for JDM
SDM - employed by SCA for Mission to Yugosl.
Feb-1957-Oct-1957
Signed Marion Anderson petition - believed
to have 70% of Comm in DC Aben on list,
for advancement of blacks.
DM paid to have detailed photos of Harbor
defences at Corpus Christ.

1911-1920-USSR
1930-1937 Belgium
1920-1930 - Poland
1938 - USA

Borde de Laren, Lulin - allegedly lived at SDM.

3rd Agency - 2 letters 1 from DEM to State
10/19/62
1 to DEM from State 10/22/62

State - 1957 Invest. 9/31 1941 42 44 45 47 48 info
Continual 1957 Invest.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

3rd Ofney- Copy of 1942 ONI Spercent. & 1943
*NB* As exact.

Memo to
April 26 1963

Ser of Oper - Cirticle written in Le Montreur 5/13/63 stating that *AM* was awarded $280,000 + a 10 yr option for a concession on devel.

*DeM* claims he has dove geology work for *Mech Comp.* in offshore and, the *Arabica Peninsula* + in mentioning this *de M*

looked around the room + over her shoulder & said "my connection wf this is, of course, confidential; worked three Men of Jerinne

Helve-Bayer to gain concession.

said *M. Charles* + *Je M* weni anxious to develop a # of business interests wi Haiti melud. an office in *deM's* bank which would enter into cas financing & would buy some of the banks commercial paper.

said *M Charles* made an unusual statement announces that the 3rd partner waddition to *Charles* 2 *Je m.* -a frenchman is arriving in *XY* a meeting had beer set up for to meet him on Monday. *M. Carles* said it is not appropriate for on banks to ask for "#".

said *deM* sought every availat handout in his office-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

friend - Col. Laurence Oles (Retired) in and lending business

application for employment 1- May 64 (?)
when employed by Sharmex SA Edificio Continental Mexico DF Mexico - did work in Cuba.

On May 10 1964. Seven B. Bomfriend said Jaim + Saluki at Kyona Beach 35 miles outside of Port au Prince
Who is Mrs. Fenkelsteen?

dispatch April 7 1969 - dem showed a card from Pres. Francoes Duvalier with which he said he could travel anywhere in the republic u/o prob.

April 21, 1964 - Letter to Mr. questioning whether we (CIA?) had hand in blackballing dem.

DCD documents - report stating, wanted to deal us US Govt. affairs u/o dem.

Memo - sub. 20/May 65
had appt to see V.P. Johnson Sen. Keating & Cong. Rogers, according to Mrs. Mathilda

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# SECRET

Wes. Sem.

Sept 28 1967- Memo Luty - Garren Sovet.

pg 6: Sueves from Justice Lept-

Any CIA assoc w/ Dem. - No

Ex 7831 agent w. Turner - Sem may have been

HS's CIA babysitter in Sachen

CIA connect -

disproved for 055 empl - susp of Raji agent.

July 18 1962.

Aug 13 1957. derogatory exifs furnished to

Contact apper interested in interrogating them.

Jeanne Sem - employed as recept. by

cover proj. NCFE from 1950-1951

Sem brader - Simitri S. Von M. approved

April 11 1958 for replantation as contact for

foreign entell on a limited basis - not

to receive classified wifs above confed.

Tour of duty w/ 055 1942-45

GSM Investig by FBI. 1941, 42, 43, 47. 57.

1940-42 - considered to be pro German

suspected of espionage agent & german mapsgz

Possible signy names - Schlumberger Well

Surveying Corp. (Houston) Janet Souwer

Oscar Castro, Mayaguez PR.

UC Testimony - did not assoc w/ Lito after 4/19/63 when

they left for NY Philly & DC.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

mali thru Raven
DOD

Request for info on COM ay made by Sale Allen - 11/27
Interesting that Üllers interese in COM coccured of earlier portion of this trip & refs would suggest the possibly Allen & OM were possibly in same en- veronment in. DC cira die April 63.

1. State Sept urgram NO A-153 12/22/63 contains results of and interview of Im also indicates the Mo Iwed of Mellers in Jallas (Anna Meller) Mr. Mells worked for Sangers Dept Store.

7. Ruch Laure is daughter of Com Avery Hyle, OSC-15743 who was being considered for covert ave by IO Sw: but did not receive security cleara

16-8

Message from [Part au Prince] Oct 19, 66

J&B left for Haiti aboard Mora Ore-

S listed on crew as sailor wife as cook

S tool ([Stavron apher]) 10. Oct plans. Return

Sailor Left Hacti of several months lent unpaid

Chevalier Barde, Inc. 730 5th Que by employed COM an alleged nazi agent

Baron Von Maydell - head of Facts & Films Motion

Puf

possible aka. Marguskald

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

Mems 18/3/77 from Dallas Field O. Serkini meeting - Sirken ad-nued that a Cuban had reported that le had met wi a CIA agent named Morris Bishop & Lito in 505 N. Ervay Bldg approf I month < OfK Assass. Sirker said it was common knowledge that the CIA had offices there & Morris Beshop was an alias of

Briggen uf DC.O

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

Vol 1

3rd agency - 20/12/63 Office of Sec.
Sub. .05 Info on DM + Connections w/ CHO

State Airgram No A-406 11/4/03 from Port au Prince
Sub: US Business man signs contract of Hartra
Gout & local Bank

State Airgram no 6-22 2/2/61 from AmConGen, Alexandria

State Airgram no. 119 27/1/61 from Ankara
Soc. from OS dated 2/4/58, 4/3/58, 19/2/58
Re: IM.

781 doc 30/11/63 wife prov. by Florence Mc Don.
Re: CHOs & de M

State Airgram A-295 25/6/63 from ConGen
Cotonou: Sub: Egyptians reportedly
maintaining  intel campaign in Black Office

Treasury Report 12/12/63 re de M.

State doc - 16/12/63 re: de M

"Airgram A-153 20/12/63 2nd interview
w/ J+G de M.

981 Doc 23/12/63 re J+G de M

further note
arrived Dec 21 (no yr) Port 12th luggage not
(inspected) This person stayed at Col's home
(Aug 1958 - CIA interview)

(has discussed residence + Activity
of citizen - Mohammed Fayid w/out encouragemen
Alex had been dating - did not trust him..

speculation - deM accuse w/ Mohammed prees

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

DDO
Leslie Wizelma

Herman Greenspun

DOB-8/27/09

POB- Brooklyn, N.Y.

Third. Agency

1-Justice Dept report dated 9 June 1950

re Leland Robert Lervis /w/address et al. Neutrality Act

2-Navy Dept intel. Report dated 27 July 4 re Panama-

Palistine Air Line, further information ce.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

Leslie Wizelman
Doo-Summary
Leslie Wizelman
5/18/78

McLendon, Gordon

1975 Review of file- McLendon classified as


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

Genzman
5-12-78

Index - Star - ref. # documents or files

$\\swarrow$

IBM

201 or operational
activities file

name-grouping used for storage &
retrieval

name-grouping tables

- alphabetical

- names from DPO correspondence according criteria, terrorists & KGB, etc.

matrinymic search

Psend - office assigns
manual file


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

David W. Ferrie File - DDO
201-835476

File opened 25 Jun 68
Contains 20! Personality Files Action Request:
form with basit biographical
data only!

Review of 201 on 5 Feb 75
notes: file opened "as part of . . .
Garrison case", monitored
because Garrison had been trying
to implicate the agency.

DCD - # 191987
Contains FOIA requests from
Bernard Tenstenwald & Dan
Rather.

Note from Day-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# All Documents from Deryabin File

5/24/75 Memo Dec. 12, 1963
From: Deputy Director Plans
To: Director, FBI; Attention: Mr. S.J. Papich
Subject: Peter Deryabin's Comments on Kennedy Assassination.

Agency does not specifically endorse conclusions.

- Did KGB send LHO on the mission, + LHO on his own initiative assassinate JFK?
- (F) Strengthens DeGaulle's leadership.

WAS MOP low-level informer for KGB after she met LHO inside Russia?

- party affiliation in Russia?
- member of Komsomol? - would they expel her if she tried to travel outside U.S.S.R. -
- not recalled, KGB interview
- which offices was she invited to - before + after marriage. Did they try to dissuade her from marrying foreign?
- how many times did she write for visa to Foreign affairs ministry?
- who present at marriage. how registered
- who chose Minsk; what friends.
- invited to police stations?
- gun in U.S.S.R.? Permission?
- Financial assistance?
- was 1st child born in U.S.S.R. baptized there?
- was 2nd in U.S.A.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

5/24/78 Memo 12/12/63.

Sbj: Dergaberi

From: Deryaben File:
Questionnaire for Mauria Oswald?
CI/Holmes: centrally.

BIO

Q: Why MOP not officially adopted by Medveden?
Q: Who made her return to mother & stepfather
past grandparents.
Q: What made move to Leningrad?
Q: Why quit job in one day? - took
meals outside of house - where is that?
Q: Who chose Hink? Why LHO's salary so high &
less so low?

Moscow Trip - July '61.

Q: did she have permission for trip?
how was it accomplished? What did
they do?

Q: Visit to U.S. Embassy - must have known it
was surveilled.

Which reprimands?

Kharkov Trip - Fall '61.

Q: how travelled
Did she see Mikhailov there?

Auto.
LHO ties to Burlov - not mentioned in Minsk
why Prusakov?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

124/78

# SECRET

Domestic Contact Division

unfounded allegations of twinest schoolat Minsk. (circumstance of school theright
offirmed of trial of Bandera - assassin
in west barmany). dated. 6/16/64.

## Volume I

201-743808

File opened 1/27/64. [Stepfathe slant
Biodata on A.S. Medvedev.
FBI report JEH letter to DCIA
4/7/51 subj: Vladimian Mokovin

Dec. 2, 1963 memo:
3 items: Dept. of State Report dated July 11, 1951
ONI Report dated Dec. 18, 1961.
Immigration File of MOP contains
12/2/63
a list of other items

Born 1941; July 17
married 30 April 1951

FBI report of Hosty
6/22/64
subj - Lydia Dymitruk.

W.C. Doc. #361 - Biographical Info on MOP's
relatives - available to political resea.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

Certificate for people going abroad:
- why no family listed

Lists of names of Associates.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

2

5/24/78

Vol II

201-743808

FBI Repat 2/17/64

dictated 2/18/64 DL 100-10461

Boguslav + Heitman; (p439 + seg.)

FBI repats indexed under LHO.

Vol II


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

3 14

0/24/78 Q's for MOP.

- List of MOP's family.

Military Service Booklet
arrived August 59 in Minsk, why
no voyenny bilet (MSB) until 22 Sept?
no stamp until 28 Oct. Why does
booklet not reflect Komsomol membership?

§10. Why moved Aug 4 from Frunzensky
Rayon to Aug 9-Leninsky Rayon,
when planning to moved to U.S.A. ASAP -
had started getting documents for a visa?

Birth Certificate
How that she item B. contained copies. What happend
to original.

Work Booklet
July 28, 1961 - reflects promotion at
hospital. Why, if she was being harrassed
about plans to leave U.S.S.R.

Trade Union Booklet:
- Is she expected to depend as wife on non-ghetto immigrant status.
- Did she expect to return within 2 years?
- Her passport valid 1/11/62 to 1/11/64
- How was she informed of permission to leave S.U.?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

professionally necessary but dangerous code word.

May 21,63 - S.M drops into Say M.
Charlie has returned to Haiti & is seriously being considered as next president.

FBI Memo from Hoover to Kunkel - 3/23/64

"Reference is made to your letter dated 2/12/64 wherein you request a full-scale Intell-type investig., concerning Orgdem."

In view of the present residence of the dems in Haiti & their previous travel thru Mexico & Central America, you may desire to direct the CIA re dem.

Reports prepared by FBI -

Report of

|                    | Date    | Office      |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------- |
| W. James Wood      | 2/28/64 | Dallas      |
| J. Hale McMenamin  | "       | Denver      |
| James S. Weir      | "       | Houston     |
| James F. Morrissey | "       | D.C.        |
| Warren de Bruey    | "       | New Orleans |
| James C. Kennedy   | 3/1/64  | San Antonio |
| Harry H. Whidbee   | 3/2/64  | L.A.        |
| J.S. Weir          | 3/3/64  | Houston     |
| J.K. Wineberg      | "       | Philly      |
| John McHugh        | "       | San Fran    |
| Rob. Baker         | 3/4/64  | San Diego   |
| L. Russell Hushman | 3/6     | Denver      |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

James Francy 3/12/ New York
Kot Moffat 3/10 New Haven
Walter Logos " Chicago
Pheaney 2/27 NY
R.B Kellog 3/14 Miami
James wood " Dallas

Rept # CS 3/449,717 Info Dept. Koforn
Sub: Steel, Activ. of Al-Nasir Trading. Cs.
June July 1960 - profits of Al Nasir were being transferred to a special govt fund for financing clandestini operations.
UAR Govt used company for "illegal" transactions to such as trade of France on base of commission fee of 10%
Lt. Col. Mohammed Sharia, des of Co reported to have engaged in wtill op. dury preveores assignt as manage of Del Com.

Memo 7/30/42 from Ensign Horrigan to Comm Vanderbilt office of Strategic Services
met dem said he was rep an Irish felin es distributing films taken under the auspices of fresh govt during Span. War.
His uncles place was raided shortly there after at it suggestion of a friend of mine Govend many films of a pro Nazi nature which are intended to show force + effectiveness of German army.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

office of Strategy Services June 26, 1942

"It is impossible for us to secure you definite for another week or 2. In the meantime, if you decide to accept the Met. offer, please advise us where you can be reached!"

Wm Vanderbilt

June 23, 1942 -

Letter to Vand. Offering service of Resumé. Mention "new & exciting business enterprise in Mex"

resumé - states he was foreign corres. of 2 Polish newsps. & collaborated of Polish Official Press Agy.

1941 - Collab. w/ Dept of Econ Info + French. Govt

Letter May 25, 1942 to Vander. Stating Mr. Kwapiszewski - Chg. d'Affairs of Poland in DC can give him info in MeMi.

May 19 1942 - from Robert Alcorn to Vander.

"Here is another non-citizen who cooks like good material."

Note: Application - 055 Character ref -

W. Carmichael - 630 5th Ave NY
Mrs. Bishop 179 E. 79th St
Mrs. Miller 1148 5th Ave
A. Tursaides 2 Sutton P

Helped french commercial Info. Service

Remarks "may go w/ Cockefelle Comm".

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

Vol. Muhamad Faid 1/12/01
said to have correctors of Castro
represents Sen. Commensura + Haveg. Co of Kuwa

GSM was present at MEG and introduced lots to group

3rd agency - G.fJde M. 1/3/67 Dallas - FBI
de M? close contact w/ Haiti in Wlodzimiersky.
Palicki - polich commercial rep in Haiti - Subject (de M) has also been on close terms of

3rd agency - Bde M 2/2/66 Haiti Jule #IK2750-2207
DIA

mailing assoc- Mrs E. Milewski
232 Abercarn Rd London SW.
Eng.
RM Iglehart
3824 Suwen Bld.
Dallas
M/M Franklin G. Small
PO Box 96
Fulton Co Va
J Wall
36 Badge Rd
Medford Kia

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

4059 4272

SECRET

Source
we may be 63. um had private convers. uy
contact uy is joue - If Suvalier learned of her
life Muld call hen wife'is

rafo is: picture taken of per seg
of HSCA invest. on Channel WFAP. Dallas

Charge made in WEAA-TV CHO was employed
by CIA in 1962+

Bad Jurken - WFAA TV-advised that a
Cuban Rad reported that he had met uy a
CIA agent named Marris Bishop + CHO
in the 505 N. Ervay Building approp
a moich before assas. + at that time
the CIA agency had offered $ to CHO to
kee JFK. Jurken said it was Common
knowledge that CIA had offices in
505 N Ervay at time of assas
Bishop = alias for used by

service in Dallas as avest employ
in 1954 continuously excep 1972-73
when served at DED Readgts

Routing & Record Sheet - refers to Dm
as a forme contact of the Dallas Office
on whom there is a hendgts. file

Possibility that NY office wanted copy
of Security Check in Dm.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Sim had been in DC re... report stating De M. acknowledged to the U.S. that during with he worked for us on behalf of French Intelligence, a fact which perhaps was not known at the time of our contact w/ him in D.C. & NY.

"Obviously DM's acknowledgement of his affiliation w/ French Intells & his friend-ship w/ of Haiti indicate the recessity for reviewing our friendship w/ them should que meet af in 2y of he request."

Interview: What should we do of couple? Please adws.

Could have made trip to DC Nov. 13 1957

Vol. 5 - Erven Werner - Visiting in Haiti af Miss Vera Somoff.

George Edwen McMilla - wrote for Life - Sat. Even Post.

John Hall - Classmate of Edem.

Russ Regan - Visited Haiti af J. Hall - Sem


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

3rd agency Vol 5
FBI Report & George E. McMilla
2-28-42 file 101-21
3-9-42 " 101-18
4-10-42 101-157
5-1-42 101-2337
Report dated 5/4/44 at NY by SA Bernard
G. Rieger - "J. Ervin A. Werner aka S. Irwin
A.Werner, Terry Werner

FBI Report- Titled Jack Marvin Perlman 12/7/43
77-1416 BJF
77-6877 12/24/43
11-4-53
12/1/53 - John Mabey

Telegram: from NY dated 26/April/65
"Now understand alleged agreement of
Man called Mashi who small Stampdealer
& travel agent who depends on others for
financing. Must unlikely he could offer
let alone implement metroseed terms
Please telephone collect. Regards- Manfred

To July Nov 64 - DM received a postcard
marked Ceylon from Erik & Lehmann
Best greeting from other side -
Hope alls well of you - Has there been any
Progress in matters?...

Letter from "Sam" Dec 8 1964 -
Mrs. Priscilla I was my Marna
the light you appeared on NBC + the
reports that Marna felt I is jealous
Since George has "canal" feelings.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

Yol 2 - 3nd agency
FBI Rept of SA James Morrissey at DC on 2/28/64 #100-32965

April 21, 1958 - attempted to contact w/ Armenian Republic - DC

3rd agency - FBI Report of S/A James Wenz at Houston 2/28/64 100-32965
FBI " W. James Wood
Dallas 2/28/64 100-32965
L. Russeer Hashman at Denver 3/6/64 100-32965

DeM had registered for Selective Service in NY on Oct 16 1946 - Classified IV-4 for hypersensitivity

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

Daniel a. Parsons Genyman 5-12-78

32
(Air Force) cover

Intered 1958 JOT juz. off training

Ap 58 HQ (SE) Sept. 62 terminate CIA relationship

Jan. 63-4-Jan66 Moscow Cooling off SE Div.

66-7 Vienna

67-9 HQ Zyrs SE Covert Action

62-71 (Munich) 15-21

72-4 (London) 15-1

14-2
(Moscow) - Cult. Attaché

deeply integrated 32

John Sager was supervisor

-senior officer

Sums of 63 Paul Garblah - first CAS

* - excisions based on sensitivity of cover

(6) IA max at SL

Johnson - knew of as cult writer

Horengold - knew

melten utilized am. press

comillar div. not utilized

GIN Sangelle - only C) A man when left

montgomery - succeeded Abidian in some:

of 62. png 6mon. later (Bukovsky


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

5-12-78

Montgomery 06

06 (Carlson, Dick Jacob) DOS: ![redacted]

(William Jones, Davison)

03 06 03

Joe (Bulik) senior man at HQ (SR9) on Penkovsky.

Winter probably not Clond. Serve

George Kisevalter - SR9 - Penkovsky

John Abidian replaced Langelles was coopted.

Goldberg - didn't know

Mosby - UPI - Press of

No CIA use

Joan Seberman - not staff, maybe cooptec.

LHO - no HQ request on info

S/W
