104-10215-10126 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Information on Vehicle Consigned to Soviet Natioml

GSMusulin/om
DCS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Bldg.

2268 Case 51,605
19 August 1968

DO/DCSL

SOD/Maritime
Mike Evans
1 E 4846 Hq.

Attached in furtherence to
previous communication sent you on
subject is copy of Bill of Lading
and Dock Receipt, which correlates
to this case.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# MOORE-MCCORMACK LINFS. INCORPORATED
American Republics Line - American Scantic Line - Robin Line

DELIVERING CARRIER

CAR NUMBER REFERENCE

FORWARDING AGENT SHIPPER'S REFERENCES

FMC NO
EXPORT DEC. NO.
LUICI SEORA, INC.
21 WEST ST., NET TO
E-32636 CBC
282
00-0282

BILL OF LADING

SHIPPER

CONSIGNED TO
ORDER OF
LUTGI SERRA INC., 21 WEST STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 2 AS AGENTS

ADDRESS ARRIVAL NOTICE TO (Without liability to Carrier, see Clause 9)
VAN GABROLOVICH ALFERJEV SECUNDO SECRETARIO DE LA EMBAJADA DE U.R.S.S BUENOS AIRES ARGENTINA

SAME AS 4

SHIP
USA FLAG
PIER
PORT OF LOADING
MOHAGERIES
FT-23 STREET BKLYN
NEW YORK
PORT OF DISCHARGE
DESTINATION (if Transshipped)
BUENOS AIRES

PARTICULARS FURNISHED BY SHIPPER OF GOODS

MARKS AND NUMBERS
NO. OF PKGS.
SHIPPERS DESCRIPTION OF PACKAGES AND GOODS
QUANTITY
GROSS WEIGHT
POUNDS
IVAN GAPRILOVICH ALFERIEV
SECUNDO SECRETARTO DE LA
EMBAJADA DE LA U.R.S.S
BUENOS AIRES
XC0-489-01
S#1363961125849
1
FREIGHT COLLECT
461-6
COPY
NON-NEGOTIABLE
UNBOXED: CHEVROLET CHEVELLE 1968
1596
628KG
3518 #

FOR ARGENTINE CUSTOLES ONLY
LUIGI SERRA INCo
FREICHT COLLECT IN ARGENTINA

Suppher
LUCI SERRA INC.
GENERAL MOTORS CORP.

FREIGHT TO BE PREPAID ARGENTINA
Notice: All rates apply from ships tackle at port of loading to
facilitate at port of discharge, unless otherwise specified
ITEM
WEIGHT (2)
CUBIC FEET MEASUREMENTS
FREIGHT CHARGES
TYPE
RATE
TYPE
ORKGE
TYPE
CARGO
COMMODITY NO.
P.P. or F.
COLLECT
PORT
ACCOUNT
CODE
4624058
525532
1320140
7

Freight to be
COLLECTED $ 52553
Freight to be
PREPAID $
RECEIVED from the shipper herein named, the goods or packages said
to contain goods mentioned herein, In apparent good order and condi
tion unless (Terms of this Bill of Lading Continued on Reverse Side
Hereof)
In witness whereof, the Carrier by its Agent has signed THREE (3) BILLS OF LADING, all of
the same tenor and date, one of which accomplished, the others to stand void.

MOORE-McCORMACK LINES, Incorporated

FOR THE MASTER
DAY
B/L NO.
DATED AT NEW YORK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

## DOCK RECEIPT QUADRUPLICATE

DELIVERING CARRIER: M & G CONVOY

PLEASE DELIVER THE MOTOR VEHICLE DESCRIBED BELOW:

NOW AT: BUFFALO, KEW YORK

EXPORT LICENSE NO.: LOAD NO. 11/1

| T.&E. NO. | XCO           | NO. UNIT | MODEL DESCRIPTION  | GROSS POUNDS | CUBE |
| --------- | ------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ------------ | ---- |
| 1672      | 12/189471 /20 | 1        | CITRU-13639-SEDAN. | 3512 /461-   |      |
|           |               |          | Sina 81125849.     | 468.535      |      |

P/C-LUIGI SERRA INC..

IN BOND

TO BE REMARKED

MARKS

IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEU.

SEGUNDO SECRETARIO DELA.

EMBAJADA DE U.R.S.S-

BUENOS AIRES - ARGENTINA...

D/L DESTINATION

WHEEL WRENCH 1

INSIDE MIRROR 1

EXTRA WHEELS & TIRES 1

RADIO & ANTENNA SEALED CARTONS OF PARTS 1

HEATERS & DEFROSTERS 1

JACK & JACK BASE 1

1 PINT CAN OF PAINT 2

ASH TRAYS 3

W/S WIPER APAS A BLADES 2

RADIO FUSE 2

GENERAL MOTORS OVERSEAS OPERATION DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION BY W.TRAINOR JUL 17 1968 DM.

Received the within merchandise for shipments indicated hereon subject to all conditions of undersigned's usual form of dock receipt or bill of lading.

Carrier: .

Receiving Clerk: .

Date: .


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Moore Mc Cormack Lines

GSMusulin/bm
DCS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Bldg.

2268 Case 51,605

16 August1968

DO/DCSL
SOD/Maritime
Mike Evans
1. F 4648 Hq.

Copy of NYOR 0225 is for your information and records.
Additional information will be forwarded when received. Please let us know if there is something further we can do.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Process Shut typed in CSS. 19 aug 68
CC. A(S) 29007-68.

# SECRET

SECRET 161544Z AUG 68 CITE CONTACTS/NEW YORK P225

PRIORITY CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

OPERATIONAL DIVISION (MUSULIN) FROM BROOKS

INTEL REPORT: 00A(S) 322-29007-68

CONTACT AND SOURCE: MR. BUSER

VP, SOUTH AMERICAN OPNS

MOORE MCCORMACK LINES

NEW YORK CITY

SOURCE: SAME

FILED: 16 AUG 1968

FIELD REMARKS: COPIES OF THE DOCK RECEIP? AND BILL OF LADING ARE BEING FORWARDED UNDER COVER OF A PROCESS SHEET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

GSMusulin/bm

2268

ROUTINE

15 AUG 68

1100

EC933

CONTACTS NEW YORK

FROM OSS (MUSULIN)

NIM CASE 51,605

REQUEST TO IDENTIFY VEHICLE CORSI GHED TO SOVIET EMBASSY,
BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA

1. THIS IS NEW CASE OPENED TO YOUR OFFICE

2. BOD/MARITIME REQUESTS INFORMATION ON MAKE AND MODEL OF CAR
   CONSIGNED 20 IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFERYEZ AND REPORTEDLY DESTINED TO SOVIET
   EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES, APTENTINA. CAR WAS PLACED ABOARD SS NORHACPRIDE, HOORE
   MC CORMACK LINES, MERCHANDAAR, 4 AUGUST 1968, DUE TO ARRIVE BUEROS AIRES,
   16 AUGUST 1968. SHIPPING RECORDS SHOULD PROVIDE THE DESIRED IDENTIFICATION
   AND OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION. PLEASE EXPEDITE REPLY ASAP.

SECRET

Aug 15 121400


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET
COUNTRY: USSR/ARGENTINA/USA
CASE 51605 RE WASHINGTON 82933
DATE OF INFO 16 AU3 68
SUBJECT: INFORMATION ON VEHICLE CONSIGNED TO SOVIET NATIONAL

PLACE AND DATE ACQUIRED: ---/16 AUGUST 1968
THIS IS NEW YORK REPORT OOA(S) 2405468
SOURCE DESCRIPTION: NONE

1. THE VEHICLE SHIPPED ABOARD THE *MORMACPRIDE* ON 4 AUGUST AND
   CONSIGNED TO IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEV IS MANIFESTED AS A 1968
   CHEVELLE SEDAN, SERIAL 1363981125849 RPT 1363981125849. ALFERIEV
   IS REFLECTED AS THE SECOND SECRETARY OF THE USSR EMBASSY, BUENOS
   AIRES. A SECOND IDENTIFYING SERIAL NUMBER SHOWN ON THE BILL OF
   LADING IS XCO-189491. THE VEHICLE WAS CONSIGNED BY LUIGI SERRA INC,
   21 VEST ST, NYC AS AGENTS FOR THE USSR EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES.

2. THERE IS NO INFORMATION RECORDED SHOWING THE COLOR OF THE
   AUTOMOBILE OR WHETHER IT IS TWO OR FOUR DOORS. THE VEHICLE IS STOWED
   IN NUMBER FOUR UPPER TWEEN DECK VING AND IS ONE OF FOURTEEN
   ASSEMBLED VEHICLES TO BE OFFLOADED AT BA. THERE IS AT LEAST
   ONE OTHER 1958 CHEVELLE ABOARD.

3. THE MORMACPRIDE IS SKED INTO BA ON 18 AU3, BUT HER PORT
   POSITION IS NOT YET KNOWN. IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT SHE WILL BE
   ASSIGNED A BERTH ON THE 18TH AND THAT CARGO VILL BE WORKED
   INMEDIATELY, DESPITE THE FACT THAT IT IS A SUNDAY. IF THIS IS THE
   CASE, THE VEHICLES IN THE TWEEN DECKS SPACES VILL BE THE FIRST
   CARGO OFF-LOADED.

SECRET

-END-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)