# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
LESNICK MAX
201-209258
VOL. II

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

| DATE RECEIVED  | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL         |
| -------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| 10:05 9 AUG 78 | 12:10 8/7/78  | BETSY PALMER             | *Betsy Palmer (witnessed another line)* |
| 2:50 11 AUG 78 |               | PAT ORR                  | *signature*                             |
|                |               |                          |                                         |
|                |               |                          |                                         |
|                |               |                          |                                         |
|                |               |                          |                                         |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

![photo of LESVICK, MAX and 201-209258]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

```
/46/
SECRET
23
FRPI
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
ACTION: OG/PCD-7 (850) INFO: ODPD-D, RF, FILE, DORECORD, (10/W)
79 1972436 PAGE 001 1972436
 TOR: 091842Z FEB 79 SDOM 20190
SECRET 091748Z FEB 79 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE SANTO DOMINGO 20190
TO: WASHINGTON.
FOR: LA/COG INFO LA/CARIB.
SUBJECT: WNINTEL FGI EMPYREX TRACE
1. EMPYREX (LIAISON) REQUESTS TRACESON MAX L E S N I C K
E. MENENDEZ BORN 8 SEPT 1930, HAVANA, CUBA, JOURNALIST WHO IS
REQUESTING VISA TRAVEL DOM REP FOR BUSINESS TRIP. SUBJECT APPEARS
TO BE IDENTICAL WITH MAX EDGARDO L E S N I C K MENDEZ (201-209258),
CUIS PRINTOUT NO. 151438. STATION TRACES CONTAINED UFG-01709,
20 OCT 62 AND UFG-03590, 10 SEPT 63, INDICATE LESNICK ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN EXILE BROADCASTER AND STATION IS PERPLEXED SUBJECT'S
INCLUSION IN CUIS.
2. INDEX: LESNICK, FILE: 201-209258. RVW 9 FEB 09,
DRV-0981.
END OF MESSAGE
SECRET
```


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201..
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIGNAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHEULC PE REQUESTED
FREN IP/FILES.

LESNIK, ЧАХ
201-0209258
SEX M

200-006-495/18
DTR-01586
13 JAN 78
TREA..
P3

CIRECTOR AND PUBLISER OF REPLICA, A SPANISH.
MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MIAMI
ATTENDED MEETING FOR PURPOSE OF CRGANIZINGA
SECRET ANTI-CASTRO GROUP

DATE 06 FFB78

09517279

201-209258

SECRET
E2. IMPDET.CL BY: 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CABLES FROM: DIRECTOR, FRI

DATE: 16 NOVEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN
THE U.S.; FCI - CURA

DATE: 6 AUGUST 1977
CIASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: WILD STALLION; INTERNAL SECURITY -
CURA-PANAMA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

(family name)
LESHNICK Menendez

(First name) (Middle name)
Max

ALL OTHER NAMES USED (including names by previous marriages)

FATHER
FAMILY NAME FIRST NAME
Lesnick Samuel

MOTHER (Maiden name) Menendez Teresa

*   MALE
    BIRTHDATE(Mo-Day-Yr.)
    *FEMALE 9/2/30

CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH
Vueltas, Cuba

DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH(if known)
Poland 1903
Cuba, 1910

HUSBAND (If none, so state) FAMILY NAME
OR FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE
WIFE
Alvarez Miriam 3/26/32

FORMER HUSBANDS OR WIVES(if none, so state) none

FAMILY NAME (for wife, give maiden name) FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE

NATIONALITY
Cuban

ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
A12 542 415

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
261-72-9903

CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE.
Santo Domingo, D. Reublic
Miami, Fla

CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
Havana, Cuba 12/29/55 Havana, Cub

DATE & PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE

APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.

| STREET AND NUMBER  | CITY      | PROVINCE OR STATE | COUNTRY | MONTH | YEAR | MONTH        | YEAR |
| ------------------ | --------- | ----------------- | ------- | ----- | ---- | ------------ | ---- |
| 5530 Sardina       | C. Gablea | Fla               | U.S.A.  | Jan   | 75   | PRESENT TIME |      |
| 1730 Pizarro       | C. Gables | Pla.              | U.S.A.  | Jan   | 73   | Jan.         | 75   |
| 2122 S.W. 22 Terr. | Miami     | Fla               | U.S.A.  | March | 66   | Jan.         | 73   |

APPLICANT'S LAST ADDRESS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR

| STREET AND NUMBER | CITY   | PROVINCE OR STATE | COUNTRY | MONTH | YEAR | MONTH | YEAR   |
| ----------------- | ------ | ----------------- | ------- | ----- | ---- | ----- | ------ |
| Banos 205         | Havana | Havana            | Cuba    |       | 56   |       | Jan 61 |

APPLICANT S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS (IF NONE, SO STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST

FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER
2994 N.W. 7 St. Miami, Fla. 33125
Replica Publishing, Inc.

OCCUPATION(SPECIFY)
President

MONTH YEAR MONTH YEAR
Oct. 67 PRESENT TIME

NAY TO CSCI-3/764/464 DATED. 27 MARCH 1961, SUBJECT: LESNIK--MENENDEZ MAX
PREVIOUSLY SENT TO YOUR SERVICE. ALSO REFER TO THE FBI. 12 May 1977

Show below last occupation abroad if not shown above. (Include all information requested above.)

Cadena Oriental de Radio, Havana, Cuba commentator

THIS FORM IS SUBMITTED IN CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION FOR

NATURALIZATION ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS
OTHER (SPECIFY)

SIGNATURE APPLICANT OR PETITIONER DATE
RFB
59 Aug 60

Are all copies legible? Yes

BE SURE TO PUT YOUR NAME AND ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER.IN
THE BOX OUTLINED BY HEAVY BORDER BELOW.

APPLICANT:

COMPLETE THIS BOX (family name)

LESNICK-Menendez,

(Given name)
Max
(OTHER AGENCY USE)

(Middle name)

(Alien registration number)
A12 542 416

INS USE (Office of Origin)

OFFICE CODE:
TYPE OF CASE:
DATE:
T-485A
Dec.1, (4)
RMH18

MIA
T.C
APR 2 8 1977
01-209258


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

![signal center use only]

**SECRET**

STAFF

DATE-TIME & GROUP: 012017Z

CITE: DIRECTOR

CONF: CAS INFO: FILE: 985IT64

TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO LA/MIAMI.Y

UNINTEL RYBAT PERAMPART MHSPIKE Y

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 934495.

B. DIRECTOR 933847-

C. PANAMA CITY 38750 IN 0762371

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 936139

DISSEM BY:

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION (LESS 201'S) MAY BE PASSED TO THE ITS INTERNAL 470TH FOR INFO ONLY:

A. ALDO INOCENCIO VERA SERAFIN (201-03266343 ДРОВ 28 JULY 1928, CAIBARIEN, LAS VILLAS, CUBA FORMER UNDERGROUND LEADER AGAINST BATISTA 1955-59 AND PROMINENT MEMBER IN 26TH OF JULY MOVEMENT. HELD SEVERAL POSITIONS IN CASTRO'S EARLY REVOLUTIONARY GOVERNMENT INCLUDING THAT OF CHIEF OF THE TECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS DEPARTMENT (DTI) THE MAIN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE. ARRIVED IN U.S. WITH WIFE AND BABY AS A REFUGEE ON 13 MARCH 1961. ISSUED PERMANENT U.S. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A-12-486-223 IN JUNE 1965. IN 1972 MOVED TO PUERTO RICO. VERA WAS VERY ACTIVE IN ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILE GROUPS UP UNTIL THE TIME HE WAS KILLED BY UNKNOWN ASSAI ANTS ON 25 OCTOBER 1976 IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.Y

DATE:

ORIG:.

UNIT:

EXT:

B 201-326634

![Record Copy]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTERUSE ONLY

CLASSI
SECRET

MESBAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP

DIRECTOR 936139

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

DISSEM BY:

RETURN TO PER

B. MAX EDGARDO LESNICK (201-0209258) DPOB & SEPT 1930, VUELTAS, LAS VILLAS, CUBA. FLED TO U.S. IN JANUARY 1961.

ISSUED PERMANENT U.S. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A-12-542-416 IN JANUARY 1961. HAS BEEN THE PUBLISHER OF THE SMALL EXILE NEWSPAPER "REPLICA" IN MIAMI SINCE 1963 AND A COMMENTATOR FOR A DAILY NEWS PROGRAM "RADIO REPLICA" SINCE 1964. INVOLVED WITH SEVERAL CUBAN EXILE GROUPS.

2. ADDEE INFO ONLY:

A. THERE ARE NUMEROUS FBI REPORTS ON VERA AND HIS ACTIVITIES WHILE A MEMBER OF VARIOUS EXILE GROUPS AND ESPECIALLY CONCERNING VERA'S INVOLVEMENT WITH THE GROUP ACCION CUBANA (AC), WHICH IS A SMALL CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST GROUP HEADED BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND WHICH HAS CLAIMED CREDIT FOR A NUMBER OF BOMBINGS AGAINST CUBAN EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES. BKHERALD HAS HAD CONTACT WITH VERA OFF-AND-ON SINCE 1964. BESIDES THE CONTACT DESCRIBED IN REF B VERA WAS BEING CONSIDERED IN 1964 FOR THE AMWORLD PROGRAM, BUT THIS DID NOT MATERIALIZE. AN INTERESTING NOTE IS FACT THAT VERA WAS REGISTERED BY THE ARMY WITH ISR FOR THE PERIODS JANUARY - JULY 1964 AND AUGUST 1964-APRIL 1966, BOTH TIMES BEING DROPPED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

REPRODUC BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PR BITED

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 007255


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR 936139

DISSEM BY:

B. CONCERNING LESNICK, SEVERAL FBI REPORTS INDICATE LESNICK
WAS ASSOCIATED WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AND WAS INVOLVED IN AND SUPPORTED A
NUMBER OF CUBAN EXILE REVOLUTIONARY GROUPS' TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
ANOTHER FSI REPORT INDICATED THAT LESNICK RECEIVED MONEY FROM PANAMA
IN CONNECTION WITH NARCOTICS TRAFFIC AND ALLEGEDLY. WAS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE ARREST IN PANAMA OF GABRIEL GREGORIO RODRIGUEZ, WHO WAS
SUSPECTED OF PLOTTING AGAINST THE TORRIJOS GOVERNMENT IN PANAMA. THE
LATEST FSI INFO ON LESNICK RECEIVED IN SEPTEMBER 1974 REPORTED THAT
LESNICK AND ORLANDO BOSCH WERE NO LONGER COOPERATING BECAUSE OF AN
ARGUMENT OVER MONEY. LESNICK WAS ONCE CONTACTED BY THE HAVANA
STATION IN AUGUST 1957 AS PART OF THAT STATION'S LONG RANGE
DEVELOPMENT OF OPS ASSETS. THERE IS NO INDICATION OF ANY FURTHER
OPERATIONAL INTEREST.Y

4. FILE: 201-0209258, 201-0326634. E2 IMPDET-H

LA COMMENT: A. INDICATED TRACES ON VERA AND LESNICK WOULD FOLLOW
SEPARATELY.

B. INFORMED ADDEES OF ASSASSINATION OF VERA ON 25 OCTOBER
1976 AND GAVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF AGENCY CONTACT WITH
VERA

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR.

STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE

DATE TIME GROUP
DIRECTOR 936139

DISSEM BY:

C. REQUESTED TRACES ON VERA AND LESNICK AND ASKED HQS
INDICATE WHAT INFO COULD BE PASSED TO THE 470TH-

DC/LA/COG W. MURRAY (IN DRAFT)

C/LA/CAR

AC/CI/OG/AT

AGC/DDO

PCS/LSN/MLIL

PCS/ITG

DATE: 29 OCTOBER 18976
ORIG: LESLIE BRUDZINSKI/PAULETTE DANCY/MEH
UNIT: LA/PNC/PA
EXT: 1454

![signature of releasing officer]

![signature of coordinating officers]

![signature of authenticating officers]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTERUSE CONLY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: C/LA8 INFO: FREC/11/22/25N/10,1/15N/MIL

TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO LA/MIAMI.4

UNINTEL RYBAT HYEPOCH MHSPIKE Y

REFS: A. PANAMA CITY 38780 |IN 0787451

B. PANAMA CITY 38750 LIN 0762371

C. DIRECTOR 931692 Y

MESSAGE REFERENCEMBER
934495

DISSEM BY: 27

1. HEADQUARTERS IN PROCESS OF NOTIFYING DEA OF FBI REQUEST

DESCRIBED REF C. FURTHERMORE, WE RECOMMENDING TO DEA THAT SINCE
ALDEREGUIA IS A REGISTERED DEA CI THEY MAY WISH INFORM FBI OF THEIR
INTEREST, IF THEY HAVE NOT DONE SO ALREADY.Y

2. NO HEADQUARTERS TRACES ON, OCHOA AND MAYO. TRACES ON ALDO
   VERA (201-0326634) AND MAX LESNICK (201-0209258) FOLLOW SEPARATELY
   BUT WILL BE FOR STATION USE ONLY, A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF INFO IS
   FROM FBI AND MAY NOT BE PASSED TO 470TH WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF FBI.
   BECAUSE OF NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION INVOLVED IT WOULD BE
   BETTER IF 470TH MADE OWN QUERY TO FBI FOR THIS INFORMATION. BECIEVE
   IN FUTURE THAT ANY SUCH REQUESTS FROM 470TH FOR INFORMATION SHOULD
   BE DIRECTED THROUGH THEIR OWN COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS TO THE FBI
   SINCE WE ARE NOT AT LIBERTY TO DIVULGE TO, ONE AGENCY INFORMATIVN

DATE:

GRIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

![signature of Les Nick 201]

RELEASING OFFICE

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFiCins

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
E 2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF DIRECTOR 934495

CONF: INFO: FILE DISSEM BY:

FROM ANOTHER. MOREOVER, SINCE INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED REF B ARE U.S. PERSONS, DIRECT COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE 470TH AND THE FBI PARTICULARLY DESIRABLE.Y

3. FILE: 201-281197, 56-2-4, 56-8-11. E2 IMPDET.A

LA COMMENT: A. STATION ASKS IF FBI HAS BEEN INFORMED THAT ALDEREGUIA IAS REGISTERED IN ISR AS SOURCE OF DEA.

B. REQUESTS TRACES ON CUBAN EXILES CONNIE O CHOA, ALDO VERA, MAX LESNICH, AND FNU MAYO.

C. NOTIFIES ADDEES THAT IN RESPONSE TO HEADQUARTERS MEMO TO FBI ON ACTIVITIES OF ALDEREGUIA FBI WISHES INITIATE DISCREET INVESTIGATION OF ALDEREGUIA'S ACTIVITIES IN U.S. ADVISES HEADQUARTERS GIVING SUCH CONCURRENCE.

DC/LA/COG W. MURRAY (IN DRAFT)

PCS/LSN/ID C. ENRIGHT (IN DRAFT)

PCS/LSN/MIL FRANTZ (IN DRAFT)

PCS/NC N. DAVIS (IN DRAFT)

PCS/ITC P. PLUMB (IN DRAFT)

AC/CI/OG/AT H. ARCHER (IN DRAFT)

AGC/DDO A.E. GOLDIN (IN DRAFT)

C/LA/CAR

DATE: 28 OCTOBER 1976

UNIT: LESLIE BRUDZINSKI:MEH

ORIG: LA/PNC/PA

EXT: 1454

C/LA C/LA/PNC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

#

STAFF

SUSPENSE CLA, CDO, CSRF Der(fi), DDO3 Di

PAGE 1
IN CP 73.62

TOR:202223Z CCT 76 PACY 38795

SECRET 202:32.2 CCT 76 STAFF

CITE PANAMA CITY 38795

TO: DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, CARACAS

WINTEL BA" PYEPOCH INTEL

1. ON 26 OCTOBER HYEPOCH-PASSED STATION COPY OF REPORT ON ALLEGED CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST ACTIVITY FROM AN APPARENTLY NEW
   SOURCE OF GAVO-IN MIAMI. REPORT IS NOT DATED, BUT GA/G-2 DATE STAMP INDICATES THEY RECEIVED REPORT ON 02 OCTOBER. EVEN THOUGH WRITER IS NOT IDENTIFIED IN HANDWRITTEN DOCUMENT, IT PROVIDES
   ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBERS IN MIAMI AREA, WHICH SHOULD MAKE HIS IDENTIFICATION FEASIBLE. WRITER APPEARS TO BE PROPRIETOR OF "PASCO'S SEA FOOD", 1230 W. TWENTY-THIRD STREET, HIALEAH, WITH
   PHONES 685-7344 (OFFICE); 888-6267 (HOME) AND ADDITIONAL PHONE 654-4231 FOLLOWED BY NOTATION (MY HOUSE). WE HAVE NO IDEA HOW DOCUMENT REACHED GV/G-2 BUT WE SPECULATE HY/LEMMA-1 COULD HAVE BROUGHT IT FROM MIAMI. THE WRITER IS ASKING HERRERA (US) FOR HIS SERVICES.

2. PRESUMABLY TO ESTABLISH HIS SON'S FIES AND SUBSTANTIATE HIS ACCESS TO INFO OF VALUE TO PANAMANIANS. WRITER SUBMITTED LENGTHY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECENT CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITY ACCOMPANIED

SEC

T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

PAGE 30

IN: CEC362

TO: 252203Z OCT 76 FACY 36795

BY LONG LIST OF CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS. DOCUMENT CONTAINS FAMILIAR
ALLEGATION, OF CIA INVOLVEMENT IN THIS ACTIVITY. DOCUMENT STATES
THAT ORLANDO BOSCH IS UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA TOGETHER WITH LUIS
POSADA CARRILES ALIAS "EL SAVI". BOSCH WAS TRAVELING ON COSTA
RICAN PASSPORT AND ALSO HAD NICARAGUAN, DOMINICAN AND CHILEAN
PASSPORTS.

REPORT LISTS BOSCH'S CONTACTS AS MANUEL PORRO IN NICARAGUA
(DESCRIBED AS CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTASIO SOMOZA); ORLANDO NUNEZ
IN COSTA RICA; AND MARIO RIVADILLA IN SANTO DOMINGO. POSADA IS
DESCRIBED AS EX-U.S. ARMY RANGER, WHO WORKED FOR VENEZUELA'S
DIGEPOL FOR EIGHT YEARS AND THEN ORGANIZED PRIVATE DETECTIVE AGENCY
WHICH EMPLOYS OVER 1,230 MEN. POSADA, ACCORDING TO THE WRITER,
DIRECTED ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS IN VENEZUELA AGAINST THE COMMUNISTS.
HIS ALIAS WAS "INSPECTOR BASILICH" AND ALSO "EL CALICHE". THE RECENT
OPERATION AGAINST THE CUBANA PLANE WAS MOUNTED BY POSADA, ASSISTED
BY ALDO VERA. THE WRITER CONTINUES BY STATING THAT, BOSCH'S RECENT
TRIP TO VENEZUELA WAS AN ATTEMPT TO SETTLE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
MALDON'S GROUP AND CORU. BOSCH'S MISSION WAS SUCCESSFUL AS IT
APPEARS. TOPS AND ALDO'S GROUP WILL UNITE. ALDO VERA IS REPORTEDLY
IN PUERTO RICO.
THE WRITER ADDS THAT ALDO SIGA UP WILL ENTER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

5323 55
PAGE 5-S
TOR:2622038 OCT 76
IA 23.02.
PACY 38.795

NEVEZUELA IN NOVEMBER 75 TO MOUNT A SERIES OF ATTACKS AGAINST CUBAN EMBASSIES IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA.

4. IT IS NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR FROM TEXT BUT IT APPEARS AFTER

I. RECAVIAR FERNANDES DE CASO,
CUSADE ALLOAED TO TRAVEL TO PANAMA SINCE SHE HAS ALREADY SERVED HER SENTENCET FERNANDEZ KOULD THEN TRAVEL FOR PANATO WAY ANERE SAE HOULD BE OF SERVICE TO TA ARTER.

5. RITER CLAIMS THAT ANULFO ABIAS AAS SET TO GO TO PARAMA DURING THE RECENT UNREST THERE. ARIAS AAS TO HAVE BEEN FLOWN BY JOE MEMOLA, AN AMERICAN WHO IS ALL KNJWA TO CUBAN GOVERNMENT. JOE MENOLA AND ROLANDO MARTINEZ, 140 ARE IN CONTACT AITA CIA, WILL INTRODUCE THE ANITER TO ARIAS THUS IMPROVING MISTER'S ACCESS TO ARIAS AN IS OF INTEREST TO PANAMANIANS.

STATION POUCHING CURY OF ALLEGED CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITSES TO ADDRESSEE

7. FLUE: 20-2-273. E-2 IMPOFT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# STAFF

T 328052 E14682 PAGE 01 T09:2112392 CCT 75 IN C76237 FACY 36758

SECRET 2212172 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE. PANAMA CITY 38750

TO: PRIORITY LA/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR.

WNTITEL RYBAT PERAMPART

REF: PANAMA CITY 36685 ( )

1. 47874 MIGP SUCCEEDED IN HOLDING OPS MEETING WITH SOURCE 301 NIGHT OF 19 OCT. IN COURSE OF THAT DEBRIEFING, 301 REPORTED FOLLOWING:

A. HE WAS SENT ALONE TO MIAMI SY GN G-2, LTC. NORIEGA, ON 14 OCT, RETURNED TO PANAMA NIGHT 15 OCT. HIS MISSION WAS TO CONTACT SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA TO OBTAIN INFO ON CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION WITH SABOTAGE OF CUBANA AIRLINER OFF BARBADOS.

B. 301 REACHED ALDEREGUIA THROUGH CUBAN EXILE FEMALE NAMED CONNIE OCHGA, WHO FUNCTIONS AS MISTRESS TO BOTH 301 AND ALDEREGUIA; ALDEREGUIA NAMED CUSAN EXILES ALDO VERA AND (FNU) MAYOUNA VETERINARIAN AS HAVING HAD ROLE IN SABOTAGE OPERATION, BUT SAID PRINCIPAL FIGURE WAS ORLANDO BOSCH. ALDEREGUIA SAID THAT BOSCH HAD GONE TO NICARAGUA WHERE ANASTASIO SOMOZA GAVE HIM UNSPECIFIED AMOUNT OF MONEY TO MOUNT OPERATION. BOSCH PROCEEDED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

RF FILE VP

T 320252 E14482 PAGE 2 IN 276237
TOR:2112392 CCT 76 PACY 38752

TO CARACAS TO CARRY IT OUT. 'ALDEREGUIA ALSO NAMED CUBAN EXILE MAX LESAICH AS BEING IMPLICATED IN OPERATION.

C. AFTER 381 RETURNED TO PANAMA, HE WAS INVITED TO DINNER AT POME OF AMADO PADRUN, KNGAN CUSAN INTEL OFFICER IN CUSAN EMBASSY PANAMA CITY, NIGHT 16 OCT. CUEAN AMBASSADOR GARCIA WAS ALSO PRESENT..

GARCIA PRAISED 381 EFFUSIVELY FOR PREVIOUS INFO 331 HAD PROVIDED TO CUBANS FROM MIAMI EXILE CONTACTS. GARCIA SAID THAT FIDEL CASTRO USED ITREXTENSIVELY IN PREPARING HIS 15 OCT SPEECH.

D. 321 WILL BE ASKED BY NORIEGA TO GO TO MIAMI AGAIN IN NEAR FUTURE, PROBABLY FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION ON SAME SUBJECT.

2. IF 321 GOES TO MIAMI AGAIN 47TH WILL SEND STUDLEY TO MEET HIM THERE TO MONITOR HIS CONTACTS WITH EXILE COMMUNITY. CONTACT WITH 321 IS MUCH EASIER IN MIAMI THÂN IN PANAMA, 470TH WILL INFORM FBI AS REQUIRED BY COORDINATION RULES. WOULD APPRECIATE MIAMI STATION ASSISTANCE TO STUDLEY IF REQUIRED. MIGHT BE ESPECIALLY HELPFUL IF MIAMI CAN PROVIDE RAPID LOCAL TRACES ON NAMES THAT HE GETS FROM 322.

3. STATION TRACES ON OCHOA AND MAYO NEGATIVE. NAME ALDO VERA IS ON CURRENT ON G-2 WATCHLIST, IDENTIFIED AS PUERTO RICAN RESIDENT AND "DANGEROUS". DO NOT KNOW WHETHER THIS IDENTICAL TO SAME NAME


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

STAFF

T 320052 E14482 PAGE 23-23 IN 076237
TOR: 211239Z OCT 76 PACY 38752

IN PARA 28 ABOVE BUT BELIEVE IT LIKELY. MAX LESNICH IS ALMOST
CERTAINLY EDITOR OF "REPLICA" MAGAZINE IN 1974 AND SUBJECT OF
LENGTHY MIAMI FBI REPORT DATED 25 SEPT. 74 (FBI FILE NO. 105-3492)
DEALING WITH ENMITIES WITHIN MIAMI EXILE COMMUNITY.

4. REQUEST ADDRESSEE TRACES ON OCHOA, VERA, MAYO AND..
   LESNICK. PLEASE INDICATE WHAT INFO MAY BE PASSED TO 472TH.

5. FILE: 56-2-4, 201-033215. E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

RE FILE VR

STAFF

T 322643 El AC 57 PAGE 01-21 IN 076521
TOR: 211554Z OCT 76 LMIM 25518

SECRET 211546Z OCT 76 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 25518

TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL RYSAT PERAMPART

REF: PANAMA CITY 38752 (IW/076237)

1. ONLY STATION TRACES ON SUBJECTS REF ARE ON ALDO.
   VERA SERAFIN, WHO INVOLVED WITH HAITIAN/CUBAN EXILE GROUPS
   PLANNING INVASION OF HAITI IN 1966. (MAY PASS 470TH).

2. WISH REMIND PANAMA CITY, LA/MIAMI STATION RECORDS AND
   FILES ON CUBAN EXILES ARE VERY LIMITED AND THEREFORE ANY ASSISTANCE
   WE PROVIDE 470TH REPS WOULD NOT BE AS MEANINGRUL AS HQS TRACES.

3. FILE: 55-2-4, 221-0933215. E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

YLULA, LAS VILLAS, VULLIAS
100-000-01
VO MAN 66
PV
ENTORE IN MIAMI. CHARTER MUR, AND MUR
CF FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEL OF LLEP.

FLE INDEX UNLY
LESTICK, MAX.
201-0209253
SCA 3
UFG 450
C19-300-025
W919-21546
17 APR 74

PEONED AS ONE OF LEADERS OF FRENTE OF LIB-
FRACIN VACIONAL DE CUBA.

RE: DATE 14 MAY 74
09108246
L.S-CAY, X
201-07335
LX-338-0
46. CEC 7:
LESNIK, Max
CUBA
Subj reportedly in SNTO working on anti-Castro Radio program broadcast over Radio Caribe, but doubt seriously he is being considered as Director, especially in view of his Cuban nationality. (SNTO-1366, 18 Mar 63, IN-88859)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

ALBATICK, BK

SIX IT DOWN?

CIT ?

PLATED A SHORTWAVE BROADCAST OF RECENT ALPHA ATTACK FROM SANTO DOMINGO ON 12 OCT 62. SOURCE OF AMOT-119.

OPO-200-0003

TLG -201/02

20 OCT 62

WAVE-00110

P1

TLD INDEX ONLY

1.306.553

![photo of text]

![photo of text]

![photo of text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

for Cantin
ale to combat BATISTA regime.

Pre ofuta canal. Arrolet
lol Ortasuna Party group in collatorating lth PSP on protest against
tome press 16 Dec 54 for murting 16 Dec 54 at COCO. More info on people.
Protestating enal. Pooling hols
Pticipated in antinence of Pop and Ortodo, landere at Dr. Bardo
Dom, lentere at Dr.
somentary by Dub joet 21 Doper Co.


616-63
16-KW
10-0
CS-11922
21 Dec 54
21 Dec 54
Alt Report: 09
Cadena Oriental de Radio on Trane-Cube Canal. 30 Cuba 1 Apell T1520
MAM-737

LESNICK MEIENDEZ, MAX
SCX M DOB ?

CIE CUDA?
OCC NEWSMAN
A USA, FLA., MIAMI
EDFLOR OF THE NEWSPAPER/REPLICA/ IS
FELIEVED TO SERVE AS THE LIAISON DE IVECN
MANOLO RAY RIVERO
Manuel


FED TIDEX ONLY

LESNICK MENENDEZ, MAX
201-352252
SEX M DOB?
UFCA-17110 ΛΟΙ
CUBA?
21 AUG 64
CIT.CURA ?
PIT
OCC ?
A USA
CONTACT OF JORCE VOLSKY /201-352252/
EDITOR OF REPLICA NEWSPAPER.

FLD INDEX ONLY
1447J3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

LESNICK MENEN, MAX EDGARDO

201-209258.
SEX M DOB 08 SEP 30
CUBA, LAS VUELTAS
CIT CUBA?
OCC EDITOR
A USA
REF UFGA-12336, 13 NOV 63
ARR USA KEY WEST, FLA. 26 JAN 61 REQUESTING
POI ASYLUM. FORMER RADIO COMMENTATOR CUBA.
STATES NOT CONNIE OR SYMPATHIZER. PUBLISHER
AND EDITOR OF REPLICA NEWSPAPER. DOI NOV 63.
CORR CARD WAS LESNICK, MAX MENENOEZ
UFG

1 794 260

LESNICK, MAX
201-209258
SEX M DOB ?
CIT DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
OCC ?
A DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SUBJ HAD MEETING W/SUBJ OF 201-239298,
AND SUBJ COMMITTED HIMSELF OFFICIALLY TO
JURE. SUBJ WOULD BROADCAST WEEKLY ON
BEHALF OF JURE IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

019-300-004
UFG -03590
10 SEP 63
P4

HDC

1 706 00

Lesnick, Max

Subject who is on editorial staff of newspaper
said that within one week the first edition
of Replica, a four-page newspaper, will be
available in 5,000 copies within the Cuban
exile community. Its format will be almost
in tabloid form and it may appear three times
a month. The printing cost for each issue will
be $200.

CSDB-3/657,39:

22 Oct 63

LESNICK, MAX
201-209258
SEX M DOB ?
CIT USA ?
OCC ?

019-300-004
UFG -03849
15 OCT 63

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEWSPAPER REPLICA
TO COUNTERACT PRO-BATISTA PROPAGANDA IN
THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNIST, THE SUBJECT
IS AN EDITOR.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

LESNIK, Ma. Cuba

Subj, Cuban national, recently rumored made
Chief Radio CARIBE.

(WAVE-5865, (IN-87544), 16 Mar 63)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

ULESTE AFECA PARAEL
1257625 LESMES AGUIFRE GURDALURA
6101689 LESMES AGUIRRE FJALALTIGE

CUBA 000027 TSEA
CUBA
F702214 CUBA EGE
57216-CUBA CAR

LLA SF
6076
011076
224 125
11

ESMES MENCETA FALAF
17
BOUS LESMES MANGELA FRIALI
77ESMES MANFESARIAL
GOTESMES MANFESA FATALL
OCTOPUSE SMES MANFESA RAFAEL
6767-78 ESMES MANDESA HALALE
1171326 ESMES MANNE CA HAFAEL
031017ESMES MANFECA KAFAEL
ELUSTESMES MANGESA F
0112600
CUBA 141-126 TSEA
CUBA 141126 TSEA
LUEA: 141126 TSEA
CUBA 14.1.126-TSEA
CUBA 141126 TSEA
CUBA. 141126. TSEA
LUGA
CUBA 141126 TSEA
CUBA 141-126

NOFROM TO AD
ГАЧ, ГУНА
PANAJAR
CUBA PANA06270
USS FANA
FANA CUBA
CUBA CAN
03918SPAN CUBA A
LIM
HEPA 15322
H2A 13322
1519707 13561
043770
151070
1071
27.273-
310175
FZON JAR D 137274-
0003912 CUBA JAP: 4
CUBA 141126 TSEA 0003918 JAF CUBA D 180275

75676 LESMES MANKESA HAFRE
240514 LESME'S MANFECA GAFAEL
CUBA 141126
+1171327 L'ESMES MANEESA FATAFAT
J257626 LESMES MANNGSA
6780637 LESMES MANFGCA RAFAEL
1263427 LESMES RAFAEL
1263428LESMES AFREE
32576272LESMES KAMOS FRANCISCO
175600BESMO HERNANDEZ MON
F563633 LESMO REGON IDA AE
RE786839 LESNICK OBERSTEIN MEY
6786838 LESNICY OBERSTEIN MET
8780841 LESNIK DEERSTEIN CMAJ
2786842 ESNI GEEFSTEIN LO

0003912 JAP
CUBA 141126-TSEA 3018
CDEA141126 TSEA
1 180275
MZFA-15551-
22M 10395
22M 11257
22M 12943
22416113
22M 13371
22M.14113
ΝΕΤΗ P: 1007720NHT00007
JAPPZONA 680976224125.13
CUEA SPAN
160367
NETH-A000273
224 6020
ONM76381
UNH UNH T6381
CUBA 000027 TSEA 23270
CUBA 2301563-TSEA-03018
CUBA 230563 230563-75EA03918 TSEA 03918 NETH BELGD 170273
СОБА 000047 STU66914151 S USSR CUBA D60077622012517
CUBA
0002075 CUBA SPANA300775 220-13710
3632 CUBA SPAN PAN 260170
QUEA 030232NETH ITAL 300966
CUBA 030232STU FRAN NE THA

22M 8346
ONHA330
081005NHA 33239
DOMR 600555 IN 22050
ONMA 22090
NETH 00056
300 FNETH SULSC0366618A37356
30366012437384
250574

QUEA
CUBA 300505
CUEA A030232
6766843 L'ESNIK JEEPSTEIN
L
QUEA: 030236
SUIS LAL
6766844 LESNIY TOSIM
200507EUS

ONHAZUOVO
0154134 LESGANG JOSE JA
ANA
12280
K197366 LESCAN GONZALEZ M
LUCA 2712 TSEASUS
JAPUA
210775
22M 13873
B786865 LESPONA GONZALEZ KA
CUFA
423
CUEA MEA
7166
22M
2037
1515863 LESTA ALONSO ARMAN
216
CUBA SPAN
221173
J008625 LESTA ALONSONA
LONGDARPAN
A
CUBA SANA 221173
22M11995
SMA20069
F624772 LESTARI CEJAS ELし・
LUEA
AZOR SPAN
70570
2245793
F624773 LESTARI CEJAS
F624776 LESTARI CEJAS
CUBA
IN AZOR
570575
27M
A
W77
F640125 LESTAPI GEJAS EL
57
1421270 LESTARI THOMAS JESUS
UF
22M 11373.
8786846 LESTAYO MANUEL AUGUSTIN
503
2786847 LESTAYO MANUEL AUGUSTIN
8786848 'LESTAYS MINEZ MANUEL
8786869 LESTAYO MINEZ MANUEL
K006985 LESTEGAS CARRERAS FAFAEL
13503
3223
MADA 1119
DELA 38682
CELA38652
DELA33467
GELA 38469
8993
A 9276
22M 13056
2006986 LESTEVGAS RAFEL
1019247 LESTON GARCIA LAZARO
8786850 LESTON LOPEZ ALEJANDO
422363 LESTON RIVADENEIRA JOSE
786851LESTON RIVADENEIRA, JOSE-A
786852 LESTON RODRIGUEZ MAGALY
786853 LESTON RODRIGUEZ MAGALY

CUBA
CUBA
CUBA D. 231276
Z2M 13052
CUEA
26665
LUEA
201506
CUEA
IN CUBA
070866-
CUBA MEA
EN USA D 020363
JEATME
22M 08104
22M 6628
22M 06773
HNH 195418
AIWM17
ZZM-03464


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

A 99A01-D CUBA HAVANA SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGA17 APR 37.
00401 O CUBA
00400 A M8/71304
61A011 MUGBOOK FILE
62A01 O LUPA
62A01 H *HIPANA AIRIN*
62A01 W *HIPANA AIRIN*
62A01 N CUBA
62A01 I MUGBOOK FILE
00400 A 151437 GILDA ROSA ALVAREZ
00400 P STEELA
00400 C LUPA
A 99A01 B SIERRA GILDA ROSA ALVAREZ
A 99A01 C CUBA
00401 O LUPA
00401 U MUGBOOK FILE
A 99A01 U MUGBOO FILE
00400 A 151438 201-0209258
00400 B LESNIC MAS EDGARDO MENENDEZ
00400 C CUBA LAS VILLAS LAS VUELTAS 08 SEP 30
00400 D CUBA
00400 O KIN WIFE MIRIAM ALAPEZ DIGAT
A 99A01 B LESNIC MAX EDGARDO MENENDEZ
A 99A01 C CUBA LAS VILLAS LAS VUELTAS 08 SEP 30
A 99A01-D CUBA MEDIUM/SIZE
61A01 E BLA/DK 150
61A01 F BROIL CAUCASIAN
61A01 I KIN DAUG MIRIAM LESNICK ALVAREZ
61A01 O IN DAUG VIVIAN LESNICK ALVAREZ
61A02 J
61A02 O KIN WIFE MIRIAM ALVAREZ DIGAT
59A01 G COMMENTATOR NEWS
59A01 H CADENA ORIENTAL DE RADIO
61A01 G PRESS AND PROPAGANDA SECRETARY
61A01 H 2ND NATE FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY NEWS
61A02 G EDITOR
61A02 H REPUBLICA NEWSFAFER
59A01 L *STATED HE WAS ANTI-COMMIE-LEST*
59A01 N CUBA
61A02 N USA FLORIDA MIAMI 01
59A01 V FBI UBF 72799 OPEN 30 MAR 01
61A01 V FBI UBF 72799 30 MAR 01
61A02 V FBI OBD 81252 35 SEP 76
A 99A01 U FBI UBF 72799 30 MAR 01
A 99A01 V FBI
00400 A 151439 201-0750517
00400 B HERNANDEZ HECTOR CANDIDO OSES
00400 C CUBA LAS VILLAS SANCTI SPIRITUS CA 28
00400 D CUBA
30/09/76 PAGE 7901 SECRET/NOFORN LA GICS FILE E2 IMPDET CL BY 003729

photo in mugbook

![photo]

![photo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 1 JUNE 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES - INTERNAL
SECURITY - CUBA

SBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN
(CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# 14-00000

![Victim: The corpse of Luciano Nieves]

![Cuban roots: Anti-Castro marchers]

trouble is brewing. Last week, NEWSWEEK'S Miami bureau chief, William Schmidt, filed this report:

The strong, sweet smell of Cuban coffee forms an invisible but pungent border around a 600-block section of downtown Miami known as "Little Havana." There the refugees from Castro's Cuba are prospering amid a profusion of their own restaurants, shops, pharmacies, factories, construction firms and banks. The exiles have become so visible and so successful that last year the Dade County Commission passed a resolution proclaiming Metropolitan Miami officially bilingual and bicultural. "The Cubans," says Bernardo Benes, the Cuban-born vice president of a local bank, "fit in perfectly with the stories you Americans like so much-the stories of Horatio Alger."

![THE CITY OF MIAMI INCORPORATED DADE CO. FLORIDA]

![Reboso: Joining the mainstream]

But not everyone in the Miami area appreciates the Cubans' accomplishments. In fact, the refugees are beginning to encounter an anti-Cuban backlash. The friction between Cubans and their "Anglo" neighbors is different from the problems faced by most minority groups in the nation, if only because here the Cubans have become the majority-52 per cent of the population in Miami, 55 per cent in suburban Hialeah. But their numbers and their success are the heart of the problem. "I've never seen anti-Cuban feeling so bad," says Rafael Villaverde, a Bay of Pigs veteran turned community organizer in Little Havana. "Before, the Cubans were competing for low-level jobs. Now they're competing for the job of bank president, corporation executive, even mayor. We are starting to step on toes."

The Cubans are themselves divided over the issue of U.S. détente with Castro's Cuba. More and more exiles are grudgingly giving up the notion of liberating Cuba any time soon-but there are those who refuse to concede defeat. Last month, that difference of opinion apparently led to a killing in Miami and the threat of more violence to come.

Scuffle: Much of the Anglo-Cuban rancor has been erupting in changing neighborhoods. In one southwest Miami community, Cuban and Anglo families have been feuding for months; in January, a shot was fired during one scuffle. "There is a real bitterness now in many middle-class white communities," say Miami attorney William Colson, "especially among people who grew up here and whose neighborhoods have become mostly-Cuban." Late last year, the mayor of Hialeah, Dale Bennett, publicly bemoaned the fact that "hundreds of old-timers have moved out because of the Cubans." Warned Bennett: "The people who have come in from Cuba would like to take over the State of Florida and turn it into Cuba. But unfortunately [for them] this is America."

Mis. Mary Orwick, a longtime Miami resident, agrees, "I don't even know what the store signs say," she complains, "and the people refuse to speak anything but Spanish. This is our country. Why should I have to learn Spanish?"

That is one of the non-Latins' most persistent complaints. A particular target of their outrage has been a bilingual education program requiring thousands of English-speaking children in eight elementary schools to learn Spanish while Latin students are learning English. Last November, the Anglo community rose up to elect to the school board a vehement opponent of such programs, replacing the board's only Cuban-American member. So far, he has had no luck in getting the program curtailed, and the resentment persists.

Killing: Many Cubans these days do not cling as tenaciously as they once did to the notion of going back to a liberated Cuba: "Morally, we are still at war with Castro," says Max Lesnick, Cuban publisher of the Spanish-language magazine Replica. "But realistically we know the situation is different. We have been in Miami for a long time. We pay taxes here; our children go to school here. This is where we live." The diehards, however, are not so realistic. Two weeks ago, Luciano Nieves, 43, a former captain in Castro's army, was shot to death in a Miami parking lot only a few days after Replica quoted him as advocating peaceful coexistence with Cuba. The killing, police believe, was the work of anti-Castro terrorists who may have been responsible for as many as 50 bombings during the past year. A few days after the murder, a "hit list" was issued targeting a dozen other prominent exiles.

Despite their fraternal struggles and their fierce ethnic pride, the Cuban-Americans are steadily moving into the American mainstream. What they need now is political power. "We were economically successful, years ago," says Miami city commissioner Manolo Reboso, who in 1973 became the first Cuban-American to be elected to office in Florida. "Political power did not seem important at the time." Currently, Cubans account for only 16 per cent of the registered voters in Miami and 25 per cent in Hialeah. But they are beginning to sign up for U.S. citizenship in record numbers and to demand jobs as civil servants, policemen and teachers. The Cubans may never jump into the melting pot, but they have what it takes to claim a place by the fire.

Newsweek, March 17, 1975

32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

FSI DOCUMENT

DATE: 25 SEPTEMBER 1974

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: MAX LESNICK

FRI FILS NO: 105-3492 (MIANI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 20 SEPTEMBER 1974-
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN.
SUBJECT: UNION MUNDIAL ANTICOMUNISTA (UMA)
FBI FILE NO. 105-22159 (ΜΙΛΜΙ)

DATE: 20 AUGUST 1974
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
SUBJECT: RUBEN DARIO MASCUNANA CORREA
FBI FILE-NO: 105-21878 (MIAMI)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SURJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

LESNIK, MAX
201-0209258
SEX M

201-0889544
HVCA-19960
13 AUG 74

CIT CUBA

RES USA, FLA, MIAMI. HAD INTERVIEW IN HIS
MIAMI OFFICE W/ ALFONSO JIMENEZ RAMOS /201-
0889544/ 12 JUN-74 PHOTO ATTACHED

DATE 21 AUG 74 09158870

201-209258

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 31 JULY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUPJECT: ACCION CUPAÑA (AC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-21947. (AMI)
(COPY AVAILABLE IN FILE OF
Orlandozzzzzhzavils ORLANDO BOSCH
AVIIA NO. 4 OF THIS TRACE)

DATE: 29 JULY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: ORLANDO GARCIA, BENITEZ
FBI FILE NO: 105-21901 (ΠΑΜΙ)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET

CADLE SEC DISSEM OV 2 PER

TOTAL COPIES 19-3 RUN BY.

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THA ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

STAFF

ARXANGE COPY ISSUED SLOTTER

ACTION UNIT

C/WH8

RF. FILE VR C/IP/AN, C/SS3c/ps/eG3

ACTION

T 287122 EIA387 PAGE 01 IN 314921

TOR12319452 JUL 74 WHIM 22190.

SECRET 2319162 JUL 74 STAFF

CITE WH/MIAMI 22190 (ENNIS ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR INFO PANAMA CITY,

RYBAT

REF: DIRECTOR 577760-

1. FOLLOWING IS VERBATIM EXCERPT FROM JULY 23 MIAMI NEWS COLUMN "MIAMI AL DIA" BY HILDA INCLAN:

"WHO IS THE AGGRESSOR AND WHO IS THE VICTIM IS THE QUESTION IN THE LATEST OF CUBAN EXILE SQUABBLES.

"PEDRO MARTINEZ A FIGURE IN VARIOUS EXILE REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS. SAYS MAX LESNIK EDITOR AND OWNER OF REPLICA MAGAZINE AND NEWSPAPER, AND STAFFER MIGUEL ALVAREZ POINTED GUNS AT HIM AND ORDERED HIM OUT OF DADE COUNTY JUNE 26 OUTSIDE MARTINEZ' HOME, 1800 NW, 24TH AVE.

"MARTINEZ FILED CHARGES AGAINST BOTH MEN WITH THE STATE ATTORNEY AND RETAINED ATTORNEY ELLIS RUBIN TO FIGHT THE CASE FOR HIM.

"LESNIK SAYS IT WAS MARTINEZ WHO FIRST THREATENED HIM. AND ONE OF HIS PHOTOGRAPHERS, ESTEBAN MARTIN.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CABLE SEC DISSEM BV PER

PERSON, UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED BY AT Z STAFF

ACTION UNIT RF. FILE VR 1 4

2 5

3

ACTION

T 287122 EIA387 PAGE 02 IN 314921

TOR: 2319452 JUL 74 WMIN 22190

LESNIK SAYS HE AND ALVAREZ THEN SET UP A MEETING WITH
MARTINEZ AND TALKED TO HIM, BUT NEVER POINTED GUNS AT
HIM, OR THREATENED TO KILL HIM. NO SHOTS WERE FIRED AND
NO ONE WAS HURT.

"I ONLY TOLD HIM THAT IF HE DIDN'T SHAPE UP SOMEBODY
WOULD TAKE HIM OUTSIDE THE COUNTY TO CHATTAHOOCHEE, LESNIK
SAYS. "HIS LATEST FAD IS TO SAY I'M HIS ENEMY".

"HE SPECULATED MARTINEZ COULD BE CONNECTED WITH
A NEW GROUP CALLING ITSELF (UMA), THE SPANISH INITIALS FOR
WORLD ANTI-COMMUNIST UNION. UMA HAS TAKEN CREDIT FOR
VANDALISM AGAINST CUBAN STORES WHICH SELL REPLICA. UMA
SAYS THE MAGAZINE IS COMMUNISTIC.

"BOTH MEN HAVE AGREED TO HAVE THEIR VERSION OF THE
STORY TESTED BY A LIE DETECTOR. LESNIK ALREADY GAVE HIS
VERSION AS SWORN TESTIMONY TO THE STATE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
ATTORNEY RUBIN WROTE A LETTER TO THE STATE ATTORNEY
CHARGING A 'WATERGATE TYPE COVERUP' IN THE CASE AND
DEMANDING WARRANTS BE ISSUED OR INFORMATIONS (SIC) FILED
AGAINST LESNIK AND ALVAREZ WITHIN 24 HOURS.

"I THINK BOTH RUBIN AND MARTINEZ ARE TWO PUBLICITY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY__________PER_________

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED,

TOTAL COPIES__________RUN BY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTEο BY AT Z

ACTION UNIT

STAFF

INFO

RF. FILE VR-

1 4

2 5

3 6

ACTION

T: 287122 EIA387 PAGE 03-03- IN 314921

TOR:2319452 JUL 74 WMIM 22190

SEEKERS, KEEPING EACH OTHER COMPANY, LESNIK SAYS."

2. FILE: 56-9-20, E2, IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 23 JULY 1974

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: UNION MUNDIAL ANTICOMUNISTA (UMA)

FBI FILE NO: 105-22159 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

RECEIVED BY IP/FILES

# SECRET
BLACK TAPE DOCUMENT

TO: RID/Files, GC-52
LA
FROM: /RMO, 3034, 1906 red

To Be Opened By Personnel Of LA/PA ONLY:

I certify that the enclosed document is the CS Copy, has been properly input to the CS Records System, and that its Dennison Tickets and back- flap (where applicable) are stapled to the outside of this envelope, together with a completed Form 2021, to restrict the file (Form 2021 required only for document classified to a 201 file).

Doc. Symbol and Number DIR-570490
Date of Document 3 July 74

Doc. is Classified to RID File No. 201-209258

# SECRET

FORM 3299A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SHINAL CENTERPOMP

DOC MICRO, SER.

JUL 18 1974

MICROFILMED

DIRECTON 570490:

TO: PANAMA CITY INFO HEXICO CITY.Y

RYBAT KMSTONE HYEРОСЧУ

REF, PANADA CITY 23450 |18-294392*14

1.  FYI ONLY: LESNICK INVOLVED IS DEFENSE WITNESS IN ONGOING COURT CASE IN WASHINGTON, LESNICK POSSIBLY CUIS AGENT, OR AT VERY

LEAST HIGHLY CONTROVERSIAL NENSER OF CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY INVOLVED IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. DUE SENSITIVITY COURT CASE, ADVISABILITY APPROACHING FUI HUS ABOUT INVESTIGATION DE LESNICK AND/OR MASCUNANA JR. VELL REQUIRE FURTHER STUDY, WILL ADVISE.Y

2.  WILL POUCH TO PANAMA CITY COPTES OF PREVIOUS FOI REPORTS ON LESBICKS ANONG APPARENT CONCERNS OF FOU IS ACTIVITY LESNICK AS UN- REGISTERED AGENT PANAMANIAN GOVTS INCLUDING ALLEGATION THAT HE SOURCE OENFO RESULTING IN ARREST IN PANAMA CE GABRIEL GREGORIO RODRIGUEZ ETHES HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH COURT CASE OF PARA LABOVE TO JUDGE FROIL FBI REPORTING, MASCUNANA UAS IN MIAMI. JAN 74 ACTING AS CASE OFF- ICER FOR LESNICK AND AN DEMPLOYEE OF LESNICK'S NAMED MARIO CABRERA TRACES FOLLOW BY DISPATCH.Y

3.  ANY FURTHER INFO MONERTNEY, NIGHT COME ACROSS WOULD BE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

CONF: INFO FILE

570490

4. FILE: 201-770319, 201-209258 (LESNICK). E2 INPDET.A.

WH COMENT: REF REQUESTED HAS DETERMINE NATURE OF FBI INTEREST IN SUBJECT RUBEN DARIO MASCUNANA CORREA OF PANAMANIAN G-2.

CGC EO DIETEL (PHONE)

DATE: 2 JUL 71

0 16: D.NICKERSON/J, HALLETT

016: LH/27P

E11: 1764

REPRODUCTION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

CAD: E SEC DISSEM DV

PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ARY ANGE COPY ISSUED SLOΤΙΚΟ

ACT: IN UNIT

ACTION

1 RF FILE VR

1 227120

E14245
MUN BY

REPRODUCTION & STHER THA!
ISSUING OFFICE IDRONIDITES

STAFF

FAGE 31

7031297252 JUN 74

IN 294192

SECRET 2821217 JUN 74 STAFF

CITE PANAMA CITY 28950

1: DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA,

KMSTUNE HYEPOCH

LES A MANAGUA 81218 (in 212447)

3. MEXICO CITY 28479 (in 213035)

1. FLOYD A CERTNEY (NOCO) LAS BEEN ABLE TO IDENTIFY

HE SUBJECTS OF REFERENCES AS FATHER(MASCUNANA

INZALEZ) AND SON (MASCUNANA CORREAD THRU NATIONAL

GUARD FILES. MONERTNEY REPORTS THAT SON IS NOW WORKING

NARLY FULL TIME AS NATIONAL GUARD LIAISON WITH THE THREE

COIS OFFICERS STATIONED IN PANANA. HE FURTHER IS OF THE

OPINION THAT SON. BECAUSE OF ATTITUDE REPEATED TRIPS TO

E. BA AND EXTENSIVE ASSOCIATION WITH CUBANS BOTH ON AND OFF

DUTY HAS SEEN, RECRUITED BY CUIS BASED ON HIS KNOWLEDGE OF

MAX LESNICK. MONERTNEY FURTHER SUSPECTS THAT Y

RELATION BETWEEN THESE TWO INVOLVES ONE OR BOTH OF TWO THINGS.

ONE. GOP MAY GE USING LESNICK AND MAGAZINE "REPLICA" AS ANTI-

.S. PROP MECHANISM ON CANAL ZONE ISSUE AND/OR FOR INVESTIGATIVE

COVERAGE OF FANAMALIAN EXILE ACTIVITIES IN MAI

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CABLE BY: DIESEM BY. PIR. RUN BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION B. OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ADVANCE: COPY ISSUED-PLOTTED BY: AT: STAFF
ACTION UNIT 1. RF FILE VR. 4.
ACTION 0 5.
6.
T 227120 E1AC45 PAGE 02-02 IN 294192
22 JUL. 74 PACY 28938

MASCUNANA, JR, AS THE CHANNEL. TWO, DGI MAY BE USING
MASCUNANA JR. AND LESNICK TO COVER CUBAN EXILES IN MIAMI.
BECAUSE OF THE VERY OVERT NATURE OF MASCUNANA - CUIS
RELATIONSHIP WE SUSPECT THE FORMER.

2. IN ANY CASE. MASCUNANA CORREA IS EX-ASSET OF OUFS
   WHO CAN IDENTIFY HIS THREE FORMER CASE OFFICERS (VEAUSELL,
   SOLLIDAY, AND LYNAM) AND PROBABLY ALL STATION LIAISON
   OFFICERS SINCE 1978. HE FURTHER REPORTEDLY HEAVILY INVOLVED
   IN DRUG TRAFFIC AT PRESENT TIME. WE CONCERNED THAT IF ANY
   WORD OF THIS INVESTIGATION GETS BACK TO HYGRUFF-1 HE IS
   GOING TO BLAME US. TO PROTECT OUR EQUITIES, REQUEST
   HEADQUARTERS CONTACT FBI AND DETERMINE REASON FOR, AND
   DETAILS OF FBI INVESTIGATION. FURTHER REQUEST THAT A.Y.
   FURTHER INVESTIGATION OF SUBJ BE COORDINATED WITH STAT ON.
3. REQUEST TRACES LESNICK.
4. INDEX AND FILE: 201-6772319. E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

OC DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

LESNICK, MAX
201-0209258
SEX M
201-0770319
PACY-28950
28 JUN 74

GOP MAY BE USING SUBJ AND MAGAZINE REPLICA AS
ANTI-U.S. PROP NECHANISM OF CANAL ZONE ISSUE
AND/OR FOR INVESTIGATIVE COVERAGE OF PANAMANIAN
EXILE ACTIVITIES IN MIAMI WITH MASCUNANA, JR
201-0770319 AS THE CHANNEL

DATE 27 AUG 74
09162006

21-209258

SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 28 JUNE 1974

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: MAX LESNICK

FRI FILE NO: 105-3492 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

FRI DOCUMENT (CROSS REFERENCE SHEET)

DATE: 25 JUNE 1974

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: "ZERO" (AN ORGANIZATION)

FBI FILE NO: 105-22094; 9-2690 (MIAMI

DOCUMENT AVAILABLE IN IP/CFS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

CABLE DISSEM SO
PIM
PERSON: UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AQVAN COPY ISSUED SLOTTER
ACTION UNIT
PIES
JUN BY
STAFF

RF FILE VR Distint. ccs2, CMG/NOCY,

ACTION
T 220557
EI4658
PAGE 31
IN 291830
TOR:262152 JUN 74
PACY 29924

SECRET 2621132 JUN 74 STAFF

CITE PANAMA CITY 28924

TO: MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA INFO DIRECTOR.

1. STATION IN RECEIPT OF REQUEST FROM FBI MEXICO ITY
   VIA CONSUL FOR ANY INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON RUBEN DAR 0

SCUNANA 2ND LT NATIONAL GUARD. SUEJ MAY S
IDENTICAL WITH RUDEN DARIO MAS UNANA CORREA (1-772314) PANAMANIAN-OFFICES IN OFFICIAL IS A WITH CUCAN INTEL OFFICERS STATIONS IN PANAMA. MAY 4.50 8 I ENTICAL WITH SUBJ OF SAME NAME METRONYMIC UNKNOWNS WHE REPORTED AS MEMBER OF PANAMANIAN OCEAN SOLAR CORP STATIONED NAGUA AS OF OCTOBER 73. FBI CINES THEIR SUBJECT IS 509 PANAMA CITY, 13 MAY 41 AND RESENCE AS VILLA, ESPI JAMA CITY PYAMA CITY. MASCUNANA GOREA'S BIS PANAMA
1 APRIL 421 LAST KNOWN ADRESS CALEB AND AVENIDA B

2. BUREAU REQUEST STATES THAT :-SCUNANA (FO! 2185-18992) IS SUJB OF INVESTIGATION BECAUSE OF CONTACT WIT- MAX.

LESNICK, EDITOR OF "REPLICA MAGAZINE, MIAMI WHI IN JEN SUBJ OF F3! SECURITY INVESTIGATION. FLOYD H. MOFERTNEY (:0C) IS IN DAILY CONTACT WITH FIRST MASCUVANA ABOVE AND ALS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CABLE SE DISSEM BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADYANTE COPY ISSUED SLOTILO.

TOTAL L

SECRET

HUN BY

RAPRODUCTION DY OTHER' THA
LOVING OFFICE IS PROHIBIrar

TAFF

RF FILE VR

ACTION UNIT

ACTION
T 220557 EI4659

PAGE 22-02

IN 291330

TOR:2621 2 JUN 74

PACY 20924

KNOWS LESNICK AS PRO-CASTRO LEFTIS

3. BECAUSE OF OUR OPS INTEREST STATION HAS ADVISEL
   CONSUL THAT WE WILL REPLY TO FBI REQUEST THRU OUR CHANNELS.

4. FOR MANAGUÁI CAN YOU PROVILE MATRONYMIC. AND CURRENT
   LOCATION OF MASCUNANA THE CONSUL?

5. FOR MEXICO CITY: PARA ONE WAY BE PASSED F81. CAN
   V OBTAIN ANY FURTHER IDENTIFYING INC FROM FB17

6. INDEX ALL. FILE: 201-7785.1. X-REF 56-9-1. 22

DET

S CRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

14-00000

SECRET

DO: DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE. PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM IP/FILES.

LESNICK, MAX
201-0209258
SEX M
201-0770319
PACY-28924
26 JUN 74

CIT CUBA
OCC NEWS

RES USA, MIAMI. EDITCR REPLICA MAGAZINE PRO-
CASTRO LEFTIST SUBJ OF SECURITY IN INVESTLAGA-
TION IN CONTACT WITH RUBEN DARIO NASCUNAN A

DATE 07 AUG 74
09151106

201-209258

SECRET

E2 [MPDET Q BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

LESNICK, MAX
201-0209258
019-300-026
SEX M
WMIM-21546
17 APR 74

MENTIONED AS ONE OF LEADERS OF FRENTE DE LIB-
ERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA.

DATE 16 MAY 74 09108246

Jp1-209258

SECRET E2 IMPDET. CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 27 MARCH 1974
CIASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: 105-1742 (MIAMI)

DATE: 14 MARCH-1974-
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: REVOLUTIONARY MEDICAL UNION
DR.. HUMBERTO LUIS FONTANA MENENDEZ
FRI FILE NO: 105-71604 (ΝΊΑΝΙ)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 14 MARCH 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUPJECT: ACCION CUPANA (AC)
FBI FILE-NO: 105-21947 (ΜΙΑΚΙ)

DATE: 28 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MAX LESNICK
FBI FILE NO: 105-3492 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

FBI DOCUMENTS
DATE: 20 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ALFREDO SANTIAGO SOLER ALVAREZ
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SURJECT: DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO (DR)
FRI FILE NO: 105-20203 (MIAMI)

FBI DOCUMENTS
DATE: 11 FEBRUARY 1974.
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: JOSE ANTONIO CALATAYUD RIVERO
FBI FILE NO: 105-21599 (MIAMI)

DATE: 16 JAN 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856

FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 15 JANUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE. GIVEN
SUBJECT: FRENTE CUBANA DE LIBERACION
FBI FILE NO: 105-21892


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)