# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF. 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF c/WH 8 INFO FILE c/IP/BA, c/AFE, c/SBS

TO: WH/MIAMI, [CARACAS] INFO BOGOTA

RUBAT [VUTOGA [GICOO

REF: DIRECTOR 559962 |*|

1. FOLLOWING TRACES ANTONIO CARLOS VECIANA
   BLANCH PER BARAGRAPH THREE K OF REFERENCE:

A. FOUNDER OF ALPHA 66 GROUP (196265) AND FORMER
MEMBER OF PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT IN CUBA (1960-61).

B. POA GRANTED VECIANA JANUARY 1962 FOR USE WITH
REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE (MRP) BUT NO RECORD
IN HIS FILE WHETHER HE EVER USED OR CONTACTED. POA
CANCELLED NOVEMBER 1962.

C. ISR REGISTERED VECIANA TO LNGLUE NOVEMBER 1962
AND RECORD SHOWS HE TERMINATED WITHOUT PREJUDICE JULY
1966.

D. EMPLOYED WITH OFFICER OF CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT
U.S. AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID), LA PAZ,
BOLIVIA, CIRCA APRIL 1968 TO JUNE 30, 1972.

![RECORD COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACA CO ACP TPE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

DATE TIME GROUP

CITE

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

0 DISSEM BY:

0 NO INDEX

0 RETURN TO PER

0 PAGES #

560902

2. FILE: 201-312966. E2, IMPDET.A

COMMENT: *MENTIONED ANTONIO VECIANA AND STATED THAT HE WAS DENOUNCED AS A CIA AGENT.

JUL 16 74

JB

DATE: 7 JUNE 1974

ORIG: CARL LUNSFORD/JD

UNIT: WH/SAO

EXT: 7208/9061

C/WH/SAO

R/WH/3

SB/X/W+

DC/WH/COG

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 237261

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)