176-10036-10143 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10143
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 9/24/1963
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA Reports. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM IN.ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information: affecting the National Defanse of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title. 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an una uthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656,842

SUBJECT:
1. NGO DINH NHU INTENTION TO DEAL WITH VC
2. ATTEMPTS OF PHẠM NGỌC THẠO TO TARRANGEYKECHE AIR FORCE SUPPORT FOR A COUP D'ETAT

DATE DISTR. 24 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUT INE

DATE OF 9-20 SEPTEMBER 1963

REFERENCES IN 26062

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (22 SEPTEMBER 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9684

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW

SOURCE A FIELD GRADE VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE OFFICER (F).

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THAO HAS PLANNED A COUP AND HAS SOUGHT VNAF SUPPORT AS REPORTED THE SUBSTANCE LOG THẠO S TALKS WITH DIEM AND NHU CONCERNING NHUS CONTACTS WITH THE VIET CONG AND NHU'S PLANS FOR MAJOR CHANGES IN THE SOUTH

VIETNAMESE ECONOMY) CANNOT BE ACCURATELY JUDGEDOLITI IS DOUBTFUL THẤT NHƯ WOULD MAKE A DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS ALTHOUGH THAO IS APPARENTLY CONVINCED THAT NHU IS CONSIDERING SUCH ACTION.

SUMMARY: ON 20 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGỌC THAO, ASSIGNED TO THE PRESIDENCY AS AN INSPECTOR FOR THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM, SAID THAT HE HAD TALKED SEPARATELY WITH PRESIDENT DIEM AND NGO DINH NHƯ ABOUT NHU'S CONTACTS WITH THE VIET CONG (VC) AND THẬT NHU HAD ADMITTED THAT HE WAS "CONSIDERING DEALING WITH THE COMMUNISTS."

THAO CLAIMED THAT NHU WAS PLANNING MAJOR CHANGES TO MAKE THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE ECONOMY MORE SIMILAR TO THE ECONOMIES OF COMMUNIST NATIONS. THAO HAS SOLICITED VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF) SUPPORT FOR A COUP D'ETAT AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME.

CONFIDENTIAL

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

# THAO SAID THAT NHU'S PLANS TO DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS MUST BE FORESTALLED.

## 2. THAO-SAID THAT DURING THE WEEK. 9-15 SEPTEMBER-PRESIDENT DIEM SUMMONED HIM AND ASKED HIM HOW HE, DIEM, WAS REGARDED BY THE PEOPLE. THAO REPLIED THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS STILL PERSONALLY POPULAR BUT THAT THE PEOPLE DISLIKED NHU BECAUSE THEY BELIEVED THAT NHU WAS IN CONTACT WITH THE VC. THAO SAID THAT DIEM WAS ANGERED AND DEMANDED TO KNOW WHO HAD TOLD THAO THIS INFORMATION. THAO REPLIED THAT THIS OPINION WAS COMMONLY HELD BY CIVIL SERVANTS, THE GENERAL PUBLIC, AND THE AMERICANS.

## 3. ON 16 SEPTEMBER NHU SUMMONED THAO AND ASKED HIM WHY HE HAD TOLD THE PRESIDENT OF NHU'S CONTACTS WITH THE VC. THAO BELIEVED THAT NHU HIMSELF HAD TOLD AMERICAN AMBASSADOR LODGE AND THAT LODGE HAD SUBSEQUENTLY INFORMED THAO. NHU CALMED DOWN AND LATER IN THE INTERVIEW ADMITTED THAT HE HAD BEEN "CONSIDERING DEALING WITH THE COMMUNISTS." THAO CLAIMED THAT HE TOLD NHU THAT NHU DID NOT UNDERSTAND THE COMMUNISTS AND THAT HE WOULD BE PLAYING A DANGEROUS GAME IN DEALING WITH THEM. (FIELD COMMENT. AMBASSADOR LODGE HAS NEVER MET THAO.)

## 4. THAO SAID THAT NHU PLANNED TO MAKE MAJOR CHANGES DURING THE COMING MONTHS, INCLUDING THE NATIONALIZATION OF BANKS AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISES, WHICH THAO SAID, WOULD MAKE SOUTH VIETNAM'S ECONOMY MORE SIMILAR TO ECONOMIES OF COMMUNIST COUNTRIES. (FIELD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
TDCS DB-3/656,842
IN. 26062
PAGE 3
FO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COMMENT. THẠO DID NOT STATE THE SOURCE OF HIS INFORMATION CONCERNING NHU'S PLANS.) ACCORDING TO THAO, NHUIS CONTACT WITH THE COMMUNISTS WAS VIA THE POLISH DELEGATION TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONTROL COMMISSION. THAO SAID THAT NHU'S PLAN TO DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS MUST BE FORESTALLED.

5. ON 20 SEPTEMBER 1963 THAO SPOKE TO A RANKING VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF) OFFICER CONCERNING THE POSSIBILITY OF THE VNAF SUPPORTING A COUP D'ETAT AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME. THAO SAID THAT:

A. THE VNAF WOULD NOT BE INVOLVED IN ANY FIGHTING BECAUSE RESISTANCE BY GOVERNMENT FORCES WOULD BE OVERCOME IN THREE. HOURS.

B. THE COUP LEADERS WANTED THE VNAF TO HINDER OR STOP THE FORCES OF BRIGADIER GENERAL HUYNH VAN CAO, IV. CORPS COMMANDER FROM ASSISTING FORCES LOYAL TO THE DIEM REGIME.

6. THAO WANTED VNAF SUPPORT TO STOP CAO ALTHOUGH HE BELIEVED THAT CAO MIGHT NOT NOW SUPPORT THE PRESIDENT AS STRONGLY, AS IN THE PAST. HE GAVE THE FOLLOWING REASONS FOR THIS JUDGEMENT:

A. CAO DID NOT ESTABLISH MARTIAL LAW IN THE IV CORPS AFTER THE PROCLAMATION ESTABLISHING MARTIAL LAW IN THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY ON 21 AUGUST.

B. RECENTLY, CAO HAS KEPT HIS TROOPS HEAVILY COMMITTED IN OPERATIONS AGAINST THE VC

C. CAO APPEARED TO BE REMAINING ALOOF FROM EVENTS. IN, SAIGON.

D. CAO HAS MADE "REPEATED" REQUESTS TO THAO TO VISIT HIM AND

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# 5

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION-CONTROLS
(WHEN FILLED-IN) NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/656,842
IN 26062
PAGE 4

HAS OFFERED HIS PRIVATE AIRCRAFT TO THAO FOR SUCH A VISIT.

7. THE VNAF OFFICER WHOM THAO APPROACHED REPLIED THAT COLONEL
   HUYNH HUU HIEN, VNAF COMMANDER, WAS COMPLETELY LOYAL TO THE REGIME
   AND, PARTICULARLY, TO NGO DINH NHU. HE ALSO TOLD THAO THAT IT
   WAS VERY DIFFICULT TO PREDICT WHAT ACTION VNAF OFFICERS WOULD TAKE
   IN THE EVENT OF A COUP. THAO REPLIED THAT IF HIEN, FAILED TO
   COOPERATE, HE COULD EASILY BE KILLED.

8. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL
   HARKINS) CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC, PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS TDCZ 50-312915
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY

NTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REP
