# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG. W. INWRIGHT/di
UNIT. W/C/PI/TC
EXT. 6153
DATE, 24/MARCH/1965

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
TC-
CA-PA

TO: PARIS

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: OCLWNE 5 INFO FILE,UR; DOP,AnDD, ClwE 3, C/CI

TO PRITY PARI
INFO CITE DIR
DESENSITIZED
PBRUMEN UNSNAPU AMLASH AMWHIP
REF: PARI 9995 (IN 29053)*

95504

1. DO NOT BELIEVE UNSNAPU/9 FIRING IN ITSELF A HAZARD TO AMLASH/1. HOWEVER, DO FEEL IT NECESSARY ATTEMPT DETERMINE BACKGROUND TO UNSNAFU/19 STATEMENT THAT U/9 WAS "DIRTY KUBARK AGENT", I.E. WAS THIS JUST HEATED UNCOMPLIMENTARY EPITHET OR WAS IT BASED ON DSE KNOWLEDGE MADE AVAILABLE TO U/19. IN EITHER CASE, BELIEVE IT MERITS RELAY TO AMLASH/1. SUGGEST FOLLOWING: WHEN AMWHIP/1 ARRIVES PARI IN NEAR FUTURE, ASK HIM ATTEMPT WITH GREAT CAUTION DETERMINE IMPLICATIONS U/19 ABOVE ACCUSATION. THEN HAVE HIM CALL HIS JEWELER FRIEND IN HAVANA, JOSE IGLESIAS, OSTENSIBLY ON BUSINESS MATTER AS COVER, AND RELAY PERTINENT DETAILS OF U/9 INCIDENT AS ROUTINE FRIENDLY GOSSIP. AMWHIP/1 SHOULD HAVE NO PROBLEM INSURING THAT MUTUAL FRIEND IGLESIAS WILL RELAY THE NEWS POSTHASTE TO ANLASH/1. BELIEVE THIS SECURE ENOUGH AND EMINENTLY FASTER AND MORE CERTAIN THAN S/W LETTER.

2. IF AMWHIP/1 FEELS THIS METHOD UNSAFE AT THIS TIME ANY REASON, ADVISE SOONEST. XXXXXXXXXXX

3. PLS KEEP HQS CURRENT ALL ASPECTS THIS MATTER.

END OF MESSAGE

RELEASING OFFICER 24-26 SECRET/RYBAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET/RYBAT

PAGE TWO

CITE DER: 95584

*WH/C/Comment: UNSNAPU/19 fired in row with UNSNAFU/9. Requested guidance.



C/WH/C/FI

WE/5/C

WE/3

WH/C/CH/PA

THOMAS F. THIELE

C/WE/INT

DESMOND FITZGERALD

C/WH

SECRET/RYBAT

REPRODUCED BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

![message form]
